                    FOR PUBLICATION

     UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
          FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,                         No. 25-3366
                                                    D.C. No.
               Plaintiff - Appellee,
                                                 3:23-cr-00217-
                                                    WHA-1
    v.

FERNANDO AGUILERA, AKA
Fernando Aguilera,                                  OPINION

               Defendant - Appellant.

         Appeal from the United States District Court
           for the Northern District of California
          William Alsup, District Judge, Presiding
          Argued and Submitted December 1, 2025
                 San Francisco, California
                     Filed August 24, 2026
    Before: Johnnie B. Rawlinson and Gabriel P. Sanchez,
     Circuit Judges, and Jennifer G. Zipps, Chief District
                           Judge. *
                    Opinion by Judge Zipps;
              Partial Dissent by Judge Rawlinson


*
  The Honorable Jennifer G. Zipps, United States Chief District Judge
for the District of Arizona, sitting by designation.
2                        USA V. AGUILERA


                          SUMMARY **


                          Criminal Law

    The panel affirmed Fernando Aguilera’s conviction
following a bench trial for being a felon in possession of
ammunition under 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1), vacated his
sentence, and remanded for resentencing.
    Affirming the district court’s denial of Aguilera’s motion
to suppress, the panel held that the district court properly
found that Aguilera’s seizure was supported by reasonable
suspicion that Aguilera was the shooter who fired a gun
outside a bar, where the district court considered officers’
collective knowledge, and the totality of the circumstances,
including that the officers apprehended Aguilera based on
reports of specific criminal activity and the fact that Aguilera
closely matched an eyewitness description in physical
aspects and temporal proximity to the gunshots.
    The panel vacated the sentence because the district court
applied the wrong legal standard and relied on impermissible
factors in denying Aguilera a two-level reduction for
acceptance of responsibility under U.S.S.G. § 3E1.1(a). It is
apparent from the record that the district court believed
either that a defendant must unconditionally plead guilty to
be eligible for the reduction, or that it could consider and
hold against Aguilera his constitutionally protected
conduct—i.e., his motion to suppress, motions to dismiss the
indictment, and decision to go to trial to preserve those
issues for appeal. This reflects a misapprehension of the

**
  This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court. It has
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader.
                      USA V. AGUILERA                      3


legal standard. The panel held that the error was not
harmless.
    Judge Rawlinson dissented from the portion of the
opinion vacating the sentence and remanding for
resentencing. In her view, the district court did not
misapprehend the law or hold Aguilera’s constitutionally
protected conduct against him in denying his request to
reduce his sentence for acceptance of responsibility, and
disagreed with the majority that the declared error was not
harmless.



                        COUNSEL

Elizabeth R. Berenguer (argued) and Kelsey Davidson,
Assistant United States Attorneys; Sophia Cooper, Attorney;
Merry J. Chan, Assistant United States Attorney, Chief,
Appellate Section; Criminal Division; Craig H. Missakian,
United States Attorney; Office of the United States Attorney,
United States Department of Justice, San Francisco,
California; for Plaintiff-Appellee.
Lisset M. Pino (argued), Taylor Fatherree, and Daniel P.
Blank, Assistant Federal Public Defenders; Jodi Linker,
Federal Public Defender; Office of the Federal Public
Defender, San Francisco, California; for Defendant-
Appellant.
4                          USA V. AGUILERA


                              OPINION

ZIPPS, Chief District Judge:
    This case arises from a police encounter following
reports of an active shooter in San Francisco’s Mission
District. Defendant-Appellant Fernando Aguilera was
convicted of being a felon in possession of ammunition
under 18 U.S.C. § 922(g)(1). His appeal raises two issues.
First, Aguilera appeals the district court’s denial of his
motion to suppress the ammunition evidence, asserting
officers did not have reasonable suspicion to conduct a
warrantless seizure of his person. Second, Aguilera appeals
his sentence, arguing the district court erred by denying him
a offense level reduction for acceptance of responsibility and
relying on impermissible sentencing factors. 1 We have
jurisdiction under 28 U.S.C. § 1291 and 18 U.S.C. § 3742.
We affirm Aguilera’s conviction but vacate his sentence and
remand for resentencing.
    I. Factual Background
    Shortly before 2:00 a.m. on April 7, 2023, the San
Francisco Police Department received two SpotSpotter
alerts of multiple gunshots in the Mission District. 2 The
alerts originated near the El Trebol Bar, located on the corner


1
 Aguilera acknowledges that our precedent forecloses his appeal of the
district court’s denial of his motions to dismiss the indictment on
constitutional grounds. See United States v. Duarte, 137 F.4th 743, 748
(9th Cir. 2025) (en banc); United States v. Latu, 479 F.3d 1153, 1156
(9th Cir. 2007) (collecting cases). Accordingly, we summarily affirm the
district court’s denial of these motions. We discuss these motions only
as they pertain to Aguilera’s sentencing challenge.
2
  ShotSpotter is a service that detects gunshots and alerts local police to
the precise coordinates where the gunshots were detected.
                       USA V. AGUILERA                       5


of 22nd and Capp Streets. Several officers arrived near the
El Trebol bar around 2:00 a.m., within minutes of receiving
the reports of gunshots at that location. A witness, later
identified as Briseno, said he saw the shooter—a Hispanic
male wearing a blue jacket—fire into the air and head
westbound down 22nd Street. A second person outside El
Trebol pointed officers in the same direction and said, “they
went that way.” Officers Hurtado and Frisk saw a person
walking away in that direction, and Officer Frisk saw the
suspect turn left onto Mission Street.
    Officers Grech and Hurtado took off after the suspect in
their police vehicle. When they turned left onto Mission,
Officer Hurtado confirmed that one of the two people within
view matched the description provided by Briseno. Officer
Grech stopped her vehicle near the suspect, and the two
exited and ordered the suspect to stop and get on the ground.
The suspect took off running, and Hurtado chased after him.
During the chase, the suspect turned towards Officer
Hurtado and “punched his arm out” in what Hurtado
believed to be a shooting motion. Hurtado ducked behind a
trashcan briefly, losing sight of him. Officer Hurtado then
resumed the chase, following the suspect down 23rd Street
until again losing sight of him at the intersection of 23rd and
Bartlett.
    Officer Hurtado broke off the chase outside of a
restaurant on the southeast corner of the intersection and re-
entered Officer Grech’s vehicle, which had caught up with
him. As they drove up Bartlett Street, Officer Grech
broadcast that the suspect was hiding on Bartlett Street,
somewhere between 22nd and 23rd. Officer Hurtado
provided an expanded description of the fleeing suspect—
“Hispanic male, dark skin, long hair, blue jacket, and jeans,
6                     USA V. AGUILERA


and black shoes,” which was broadcast to the rest of the
officers.
    Several officers were in the area searching for the
suspect. Around 2:08 a.m., Officer Frisk approached a
person standing in the doorway of the restaurant on the
southeast corner of the intersection of Bartlett and 23rd and
asked if she saw where “the guy that was running went to.”
She told Officer Frisk and Officer Hurtado that she saw him
run to the intersection, attempt to hide by a parked car, and
then relocate behind the white fence at the northeast corner
of the intersection. The person confirmed the man was still
hidden there.
    A few seconds later, Officer Frisk peered through a large
gap in the fence, shined his flashlight directly at Aguilera,
and spotted him lying in a narrow strip of weeds. Officer
Frisk pointed his firearm at Aguilera and yelled, “Hands!”
Aguilera was detained at 2:08 a.m., roughly two blocks from
the location of the alerts.
    In the course of Aguilera’s detention, officers found the
gun at issue in this case. The gun had a bullet jammed in the
chamber, a malfunction caused by the gun attempting to fire
the wrong-sized ammunition. Officers also found
ammunition in a bag Aguilera was carrying across his body
and found a magazine in his pocket. Aguilera fit the
description of the suspect provided by Officer Hurtado,
except that Aguilera was wearing tan boots, not black shoes.
Aguilera also wore a bright red and white bandana around
his neck.
    Aguilera subsequently filed motions to suppress the
evidence obtained from his stop and to dismiss the
indictment against him. After the district court denied both,
Aguilera offered to enter a conditional plea and proposed a
                      USA V. AGUILERA                       7


stipulated-testimony bench trial so he could preserve his
right to appeal the denial of the three pretrial motions.
Aguilera stated he intended to “stipulate to the testimony of
all the witnesses that the Government may wish to call,” and
stated he was “not intending to contest his guilt in any way.”
At the bench trial, the Government called two witnesses.
Aguilera did not cross-examine the witnesses and did not
present a defense. The trial lasted 48 minutes, and the court
found Aguilera guilty.
    At a presentence interview, Aguilera cooperated with the
probation officer and submitted a statement, through
counsel, “tak[ing] full responsibility for this offense.” The
probation officer calculated Aguilera’s offense level as 18
and the Guidelines sentencing range as 51 to 63 months. The
calculation did not include a two-level reduction for
acceptance of responsibility. The probation officer
concluded Aguilera had “not clearly demonstrated
acceptance of responsibility,” under U.S.S.G. § 3E1.1(a),
but acknowledged that “the Court is in the best position to
make the determination as to whether or not a reduction for
Acceptance of Responsibility is applicable.” The probation
officer recommended a sentence of 41 months.
    At his sentencing hearing, Aguilera argued that he was
entitled to a two-point reduction in his Guidelines
calculation for his acceptance of responsibility and that the
applicable range was 41 to 51 months. After considering
arguments, the district court found Aguilera was not entitled
to the reduction because he had gone to trial and sentenced
Aguilera based on the original 51 to 63 months range. The
court ultimately imposed a sentence of 45 months.
8                     USA V. AGUILERA


    II. Discussion
     A. Aguilera’s Motion to Suppress
    Aguilera challenges the district court’s denial of his
motion to suppress, arguing that officers lacked reasonable
suspicion to detain him before he was seized. “We review
the denial of a motion to suppress de novo, and any
underlying findings of fact for clear error.” United States v.
Vandergroen, 964 F.3d 876, 879 (9th Cir. 2020) (citing
United States v. Torres, 828 F.3d 1113, 1118 (9th Cir.
2016)). We may affirm on any basis fairly supported by the
record. See United States v. Mayer, 560 F.3d 948, 956 (9th
Cir. 2009).
    Under the Fourth Amendment, law enforcement officers
must have reasonable suspicion to conduct an investigatory
stop of an individual. United States v. Brignoni-Ponce, 422
U.S. 873, 878 (1975). “Reasonable suspicion is defined as ‘a
particularized and objective basis for suspecting the
particular person stopped of criminal activity.’” United
States v. Cotterman, 709 F.3d 952, 968 (9th Cir. 2013) (en
banc) (quoting United States v. Cortez, 449 U.S. 411, 417–
18 (1981)). Courts measure reasonable suspicion “by what
the officers knew before they conducted their search [or
seizure],” Florida v. J.L., 529 U.S. 266, 271 (2000), and
assess the totality of the circumstances, rather than certain
factors in isolation, see United States v. Valdes-Vega, 738
F.3d 1074, 1078–79 (9th Cir. 2013) (en banc) (citing United
States v. Arvizu, 534 U.S. 266, 273–74 (2002)). Reasonable
suspicion requires more than a hunch, but “considerably less
than proof of wrongdoing by a preponderance of the
evidence.” United States v. Glover, 589 U.S. 376, 380 (2020)
(citation omitted).
                          USA V. AGUILERA                             9


    The district court properly found Aguilera’s seizure was
supported by reasonable suspicion. The court considered the
collective knowledge of the officers, see United States v.
Ramirez, 473 F.3d 1026, 1032 (9th Cir. 2007), and the
totality of the circumstances, in concluding the officers
reasonably suspected that Aguilera was the shooter who
fired a gun outside El Trebol. Eyewitnesses identified the
shooter to the responding officers, and Officer Hurtado
visually identified a person matching the suspect’s
description, location, and direction of travel. At one point,
Officer Hurtado was as little as five feet from the suspect.
    When officers caught up and ordered the suspect to stop,
he fled. 3 A few minutes later, officers found Aguilera hiding
behind a fence, in close proximity to where Officer Hurtado
had last seen the suspect, and a witness stated she saw the
“running” man hide in that exact location. This is sufficient
evidence to trigger reasonable suspicion that Aguilera had
committed a crime. Before conducting the seizure, the
officers had far more than a hunch that the person hiding
behind the fence was the shooter. See Glover, 589 U.S. at
381 (citing Arvizu, 534 U.S. at 274) (“The reasonable
suspicion inquiry ‘falls considerably short’ of 51%
accuracy.”).
    Aguilera argues police lacked reasonable suspicion to
stop him for three reasons: (1) Briseno’s tip that the shooter
was a Hispanic male wearing a blue jacket was unreliable


3
  We do not consider whether reasonable suspicion existed to stop the
suspect before he fled, as Aguilera urges, because no seizure had
occurred at that point in time. See United States v. Hamilton, 131 F.4th
1087, 1093 (9th Cir. 2025) (reasoning an attempted seizure, where a
defendant flees “before the officers could do anything other than order
him to stop,” does not trigger the Fourth Amendment).
10                     USA V. AGUILERA


and lacked particularity; (2) the pedestrian’s flight was
insufficient because it was not in a high-crime area and was
provoked by the officers; and (3) police did not confirm
whether Aguilera matched the description of the shooter
until after seizing him. Aguilera’s arguments are
unpersuasive.
    Briseno’s initial tip was reliable because it was provided
directly to Officer Hurtado and was based on a
contemporaneous eyewitness account of recent gunfire. See
United States v. Terry-Crespo, 356 F.3d 1170, 1176–77 (9th
Cir. 2004) (reasoning first-hand information under stress of
recent excitement contributes to reliability); United States v.
Palos-Marquez, 591 F.3d 1272, 1275–76 (9th Cir. 2010)
(reasoning in-person tips provide substantial indicia of
reliability when officers are able to observe the informant’s
demeanor and “determine whether the informant seems
credible enough to justify immediate police action without
further questioning”). While Aguilera claims Briseno had a
drunken demeanor and that there was no evidence of an
excited utterance, Briseno appears coherent in the body-
worn camera footage and asks Hurtado to act quickly to
prevent the suspect from getting away.
    The particularity of Briseno’s description further
supports a finding of reasonable suspicion. Contrary to
Aguilera’s claims that a description of a Hispanic male in a
blue jacket was too general to allow officers to pick such a
person out of an area with a high concentration of Hispanic
residents that was “bustling” with nightlife, the officers’
body-worn camera footage reveals nearly empty streets and
                           USA V. AGUILERA                            11


few open businesses. 4 And before attempting to stop the
pedestrian on Mission Street, Officer Hurtado confirmed that
the pedestrian either was, or matched the description of, the
individual on 22nd Street that witnesses pointed to and that
Officer Hurtado had seen.
     Aguilera’s argument that the suspect’s flight on Mission
Street did not warrant reasonable suspicion because it was
provoked and did not occur in a high-crime area relies in
large part on an assumption that flight was the only factor
contributing to the officers’ reasonable suspicion here. See
Illinois v. Wardlow, 528 U.S. 119, 124–25 (2000) (holding
officers had reasonable suspicion to stop suspect based on an
unprovoked flight in “an area of heavy narcotics
trafficking”). As discussed above, officers apprehended
Aguilera based on reports of specific criminal activity, an
eyewitness description and visual of the suspect, and the fact
that Aguilera closely matched the description in physical
aspects and temporal proximity to the gunshots. Aguilera’s
flight was simply an additional factor supporting the
officers’ reasonable suspicion, not the sole factor. See id.
(“[N]ervous, evasive behavior is a pertinent factor in
determining reasonable suspicion.”).
    Aguilera suggests that, prior to seizing the individual
hiding behind the fence, officers should have (1) provided
the witness at the restaurant with Hurtado’s description of
the pedestrian, and (2) confirmed the hiding person’s

4
  Aguilera identifies 12 pedestrians who are seen in body-worn camera
footage during the entire pursuit. Police talk to seven of them when they
arrive on scene. Three are later seen in the restaurant where police
receive the tip that Aguilera is hiding behind the white fence. Two are
not seen on camera footage until after Aguilera was arrested. This was
far from a situation where police arbitrarily picked one of many
pedestrians wearing a blue jacket out of a crowd.
12                      USA V. AGUILERA


appearance matched the description. Neither course of action
is required under our caselaw to establish reasonable
suspicion. In light of the totality of the circumstances
described above and the officers’ collective belief that the
suspect had a loaded firearm, it is clear the officers had
reasonable suspicion to detain the individual hiding behind
a white fence in a manner that did not jeopardize their safety.
See Wardlow, 528 U.S. at 124–25 (citing Cortez, 449 U.S. at
418) (“[T]he determination of reasonable suspicion must be
based on commonsense judgments and inferences about
human behavior.”). Contrary to what Aguilera suggests,
Officer Frisk had a clear view of Aguilera’s clothing through
“a large gap in the fence, and pointed his flashlight directly
at defendant before detaining him,” and therefore, he would
have been able to see if Aguilera matched the eyewitness
descriptions. Thus, we agree with the district court’s findings
that officers possessed adequate reasonable suspicion to
detain Aguilera.
     B. Sentencing Reduction           for    Acceptance       of
        Responsibility
    Aguilera argues his sentence should be vacated because
the district court applied the wrong legal standard and relied
on impermissible factors in denying the acceptance of
responsibility reduction. “We review de novo whether the
district court misapprehended the law with respect to the
acceptance of responsibility reduction.” United States v.
Tuan Ngoc Luong, 965 F.3d 973, 990 (9th Cir. 2020)
(quoting United States v. Garrido, 596 F.3d 613, 617 (9th
Cir. 2010)). “Whether or not the defendant has accepted
responsibility . . . is a factual finding that we review for clear
error.” Id. Because we conclude the district court applied the
wrong legal standard, we remand for resentencing.
                        USA V. AGUILERA                       13


    The Sentencing Guidelines allow for a two-level
reduction to a defendant’s offense level, “[i]f the defendant
clearly demonstrates acceptance of responsibility for his
offense.” U.S.S.G. § 3E1.1(a). The defendant has the burden
of proving he is entitled to a reduction. United States v. Innie,
7 F.3d 840, 848 (9th Cir. 1993). In deciding whether the
reduction should apply, “[t]he focus . . . must be ‘on the
defendant’s personal contrition, rather than on his exercise
of his constitutional rights.’” Tuan Ngoc Luong, 965 F.3d at
991 (quoting United States v. McKinney, 15 F.3d 849, 853
(9th Cir. 1994)). “When a defendant’s ‘statements and
conduct make it clear that his contrition is sincere, he is
entitled to the reduction.’” United States v. Green, 940 F.3d
1038, 1042 (9th Cir. 2019) (cleaned up) (quoting United
States v. Cortes, 299 F.3d 1030, 1038 (9th Cir. 2002)).
Although “there can be a fine line between putting on a
defense at trial, and expressing contrition at sentencing,” this
determination “is not a binary, ‘either/or’ proposition.”
United States v. Hernandez, 894 F.3d 1104, 1111 (9th Cir.
2018).
    A defendant’s decision to go to trial does not preclude
him from receiving this offense-level decrease. U.S.S.G.
§ 3E1.1 cmt. 2. As explained in comment 2 of the United
States Sentencing Guidelines:

        In rare situations a defendant may clearly
        demonstrate an acceptance of responsibility
        for his criminal conduct even though he
        exercises his constitutional right to a trial.
        This may occur, for example, where a
        defendant goes to trial to assert and preserve
        issues that do not relate to factual guilt (e.g.,
        to make a constitutional challenge to a statute
14                     USA V. AGUILERA


       or a challenge to the applicability of a statute
       to his conduct).

Id. Like the decision to go to trial or a constitutional
challenge to a criminal statute, a motion to suppress evidence
under the Fourth Amendment “is an assertion of a
constitutional right.” United States v. Vance, 62 F.3d 1152,
1157 (9th Cir. 1995). In Vance, the panel noted that a district
court erred by “holding it against [the defendant] that he
moved to suppress evidence before pleading guilty.” Id. We
have repeatedly emphasized that “a sentencing court cannot
consider against a defendant any constitutionally protected
conduct.” Hernandez, 894 F.3d at 1109 (citation omitted)
(emphasis in original). Indeed, “a judge cannot rely upon the
fact that a defendant refuses to plead guilty and insists on his
right to trial as the basis for denying an acceptance of
responsibility adjustment.” Id. (citing United States v.
Ochoa-Gaytan, 265 F.3d 837, 842 (9th Cir. 2001) (internal
quotation marks and citation omitted)).
    In the full context of the proceedings, it is apparent that
the district court misapprehended the law regarding the
acceptance of responsibility reduction and held Aguilera’s
constitutionally protected conduct against him. The record
does not support the Government’s contention that the
context of the district court’s comments shows its denial was
based on Aguilera’s conduct and statements as a whole. At
the sentencing hearing, the district court repeatedly focused
on Aguilera’s constitutionally protected conduct, i.e.,
Aguilera’s motion to suppress, motions to dismiss the
indictment, and decision to go to trial to preserve those
issues for appeal. At the outset, the district court expressed
skepticism that Aguilera could receive a reduction for
acceptance of responsibility while preserving his right of
                           USA V. AGUILERA                             15


appeal. When defense counsel stated Aguilera tried to accept
responsibility, the court responded: “He hasn’t. He has not.
He insisted on taking an appeal, and it’s like a conditional
acceptance of responsibility. . . . he’s picking and choosing
the things that he wants to contest, and he made two motions
to dismiss -- so one to suppress, one to dismiss.” The district
court suggested that a conditional plea of guilty could not be
treated the same as an unconditional guilty plea because, by
pleading guilty conditionally, “you’re still hoping to stay out
of prison by getting the Ninth Circuit to say that . . . all the
evidence should be suppressed, and he walks free.”
    The district court subsequently made statements
acknowledging a lack of certainty about the applicable legal
standard. When defense counsel mentioned the Guidelines
commentary which states a defendant, who goes to trial to
preserve for appeal issues that do not relate to factual guilt,
may qualify for the reduction (U.S.S.G. § 3E1.1 cmt. n.2),
the district court stated, “I didn’t realize that.” 5 The
Government argued that the court should deny acceptance
based in part on Aguilera’s exercise of his constitutional
rights. For example, in its sentencing memorandum, the
Government asserted Aguilera “never admitted guilt and is
appealing a motion to suppress and two motions to dismiss.”
At the sentencing hearing, the Government emphasized that
Aguilera did not unconditionally plead guilty and a bench

5
  When the discussion returned to this commentary, the district court
stated, “That doesn’t call out suppression motions, does it?” and inquired
from counsel whether a defendant’s entry of a conditional guilty plea to
preserve their right to appeal a motion to suppress should count as
acceptance of responsibility. Government counsel replied that they had
not found Ninth Circuit guidance on point. Later, the district court again
stated, “I don’t see where the contrition is,” in Aguilera’s offer to
conditionally plead guilty.
16                       USA V. AGUILERA


trial took place, and the district court appeared to echo the
government’s incorrect interpretation of the standard. When
the court denied Aguilera a reduction for acceptance of
responsibility, the district court specifically identified
Aguilera’s exercise of his rights as the basis for the denial:

        [T]o me, acceptance of responsibility is
        somebody comes in and says: I did it. I’m
        sorry. I’m going to make amends. I want to
        get on with my life and the victims’ lives, and
        I don’t have any quibbles.
            But when somebody comes in and says,
        “I want to suppress under the Fourth
        Amendment,” lose, and now, “I want to
        dismiss because I don’t think the statute
        applies to me,” or “It’s unconstitutional.”
        And then they lose, and then they come in and
        say, “Well, I want to preserve all that for
        appeal, but I otherwise will plead guilty.” It’s
        not acceptance of responsibility. So all of this
        is denied. He gets no acceptance of
        responsibility, period.

The court never acknowledged the correct legal standard—
that it could not hold Aguilera’s constitutionally-protected
conduct against him.
    The district court also did not state that it was relying on
other, permissible factors to deny the reduction. 6 Nor did the

6
 The Guidelines commentary sets out a non-exhaustive list of factors
courts may consider in evaluating whether to grant the reduction. See
U.S.S.G. § 3E1.1 cmt. n.1. We have explained that pursuing “less
                            USA V. AGUILERA                                17


court address any of Aguilera’s personal conduct or
statements, such as his statement to Probation, although
defense counsel raised it as evidence of contrition. See
Hernandez, 894 F.3d at 1111 (reversing denial of reduction
where “the district court’s comments regarding [the
defendant]’s decision to go to trial comprised virtually the
entirety of the explanation for the sentence”). 7


rigorous avenues of preserving legal challenges,” including entering a
conditional guilty plea, agreeing to a bench trial, or stipulating to facts at
trial, are ways a defendant may demonstrate their sincerity in accepting
factual responsibility while advancing a legal challenge. United States v.
Gambino-Ruiz, 91 F.4th 981, 991 (9th Cir. 2024). Here, Aguilera did all
of these things, and he did not put on a defense at trial or cross-examine
any of the government’s witnesses.
7
  The dissent, relying on Hernandez, suggests “a district court does not
commit reversible error simply because it notes the fact that the
defendant went to trial, so long as the court bases its final decision on the
facts of the case and record as a whole.” Dissenting Opinion at 23
(quoting Hernandez, 894 F.3d at 1111). But the dissent fails to consider
whether the district court correctly calculated the Guidelines range when
it denied the acceptance of responsibility reduction. Instead, the dissent
reviews only whether the district court based its final sentencing decision
on the facts of the case and record as a whole. Dissenting Opinion at 23.
We have held that we must analyze “whether the district court correctly
calculated the Guidelines range as the first step in our review of criminal
sentences.” United States v. Ramos-Medina, 706 F.3d 932, 941 (9th Cir.
2013) (emphasis added); see also United States v. Carty, 520 F.3d 984,
993 (9th Cir. 2008) (en banc) (explaining that “[o]n appeal, we first
consider whether the district court committed significant procedural
error,” e.g., “fail[ure] to calculate—or to calculate incorrectly—the
Guidelines range,” before “consider[ing] the substantive reasonableness
of the sentence”). And our case law is clear “that a judge cannot rely
upon the fact that a defendant refuses to plead guilty and insists on his
right to trial as the basis for denying an acceptance of responsibility
adjustment.” Hernandez, 894 F.3d at 1111; see also, e.g., Ramos-
18                          USA V. AGUILERA


    It is apparent from the record that the district court
believed either that a defendant must unconditionally plead
guilty to be eligible for the reduction, or that it could
consider Aguilera’s constitutional motions and decision to
go to trial against him. As discussed above, this reflects a
misapprehension of the relevant legal standard. See
Gambino-Ruiz, 91 F.4th at 991. 8
     C. The Error Was Not Harmless
   Given that the two-point acceptance of responsibility
reduction would change Aguilera’s Guidelines range and
may have resulted in a shorter sentence, we find this error to

Medina, 706 F.3d at 942 n.4 (“[A] district court may deny the reduction
after ‘balancing all relevant factors,’ . . . but—in doing so—it ‘may not
consider against the defendant any constitutionally protected conduct.’”
(internal citations & brackets omitted)). Here, the district court
misapprehended the law in denying the reduction for acceptance of
responsibility when it calculated the Guidelines range. The fact that the
district court subsequently—in a separate analysis of the length of the
final sentence—considered other § 3553(a) factors, such as Aguilera’s
impoverished upbringing and the seriousness of the offense, does not
affect our holding.
8
  Under the circumstances present here, the court also improperly
penalized Aguilera for exercising his constitutional rights to trial and
against self-incrimination by relying on his decision not to stipulate to
all the facts and elements underlying his conviction. The Government
consistently argued that the reduction was not warranted because
Aguilera did not stipulate to all facts underlying the offense of conviction
and the Government had to prepare for trial. The district court agreed.
But Aguilera is correct that a defendant’s stipulation to all elements of
his crime would render an appeal of a suppression ruling moot. See
United States v. Larson, 302 F.3d 1016, 1019–20 (9th Cir. 2002). To
avoid this outcome and ensure the appellate court retains jurisdiction, a
defendant may seek a conditional guilty plea or stipulate to the admission
of testimony and evidence at trial. Id. at 1019 & n.1 (citing Fed. R. Crim.
P. 11(a)(2)). That is precisely what Aguilera did.
                       USA V. AGUILERA                       19


be prejudicial. “To establish harmlessness, the Government
must show that ‘it is more probable than not’ that the error
did not affect the sentence.” United States v. Dominguez-
Caicedo, 40 F.4th 938, 963 (9th Cir. 2022) (quoting United
States v. Morales, 108 F.3d 1031, 1040 (9th Cir. 1997) (en
banc)). “When a defendant is sentenced under an incorrect
Guidelines range—whether or not the defendant’s ultimate
sentence falls within the correct range—the error itself can,
and most often will, be sufficient to show a reasonable
probability of a different outcome absent the error.” Molina-
Martinez v. United States, 578 U.S. 189, 198 (2016). If the
district court acknowledges the correct Guidelines range is
in dispute and analyzes both the correct and incorrect ranges,
the sentencing error may be harmless. United States v.
Munoz-Camarena, 631 F.3d 1028, 1030 n.5 (9th Cir. 2011).
    Here, the district court acknowledged what the
Guidelines range would have been with the reduction, 41 to
51 months, and without it, 51 to 63 months, but analyzed
only the 51- to 63-month range. The court considered the
standard sentencing factors and imposed a below-range
sentence of 45 months. Because the district court did not
conduct a separate analysis of the alternative Guidelines
range, it did not satisfy the requirements for harmless error.
See Munoz-Camarena, 631 F.3d at 1031. A court “must
explain . . . the reason for the extent of a variance” which
“necessarily is different when the range is different.” Id.
Contrary to our dissenting colleague’s position, a district
court’s mere acknowledgement of an alternative Guidelines
range or “mere statement that it would impose the same
above-Guidelines sentence no matter what the calculation”
is not sufficient to establish harmless error. Id. Additionally,
the probation office’s recommended sentence, 41 months,
was at the low end of the lower range. Thus, a reasonable
20                     USA V. AGUILERA


probability exists that the court may have imposed a lower
sentence had it started from the 41 to 51-month range. See
Dominguez-Caicedo, 40 F.4th at 963–64. The Government
has not shown that the error was harmless under the
circumstances.
   Because this error was not harmless, we vacate
Aguilera’s sentence and remand for resentencing. See Tuan
Ngoc Luong, 965 F.3d at 992–93.
  III. Conclusion
    We affirm the district court’s denial of Aguilera’s motion
to suppress and motions to dismiss the indictment, and we
affirm Aguilera’s conviction. We vacate Aguilera’s sentence
and remand for resentencing consistent with this opinion.


Rawlinson, Circuit Judge, dissenting in part:

    I respectfully dissent from the portion of the opinion
vacating the sentence imposed and remanding for
resentencing. In my view, the district court did not
“misapprehend[] the law” or “[hold] [Fernando] Aguilera’s
constitutionally protected conduct against him” in denying
Aguilera’s request to reduce his sentence based on
acceptance of responsibility. Majority Opinion, p. 14.
    As noted by the majority, Aguilera filed a motion to
suppress evidence and motions to dismiss the indictment.
Aguilera went to trial to preserve these issues for appeal. See
id.
    At sentencing, the district court referenced these actions
in denying the request for a sentencing reduction based on
acceptance of responsibility.
                       USA V. AGUILERA                      21


   The district court observed that in its view:

       [A]cceptance of responsibility is somebody
       comes in and says: I did it. I’m sorry. I’m
       going to make amends. I want to get on with
       my life and the victims’ lives. . . .
       But when someone says, “I want to suppress
       under the Fourth Amendment,” lose, and
       now, “I want to dismiss because I don’t think
       the statute applies to me,” or “It’s
       unconstitutional.” And then they lose, and
       then they come in and say “Well, I want to
       preserve all that for appeal, but I otherwise
       will plead guilty.” It’s not acceptance of
       responsibility.

     The district court also noted that the prosecution was put
to its burden of proving Aguilera’s guilt beyond a reasonable
doubt. Nevertheless, the district court clarified that even
though it was denying a sentence reduction based on
acceptance of responsibility, that didn’t mean that the court
wouldn’t go below the guideline range in imposing sentence.
The court described the possibility of sentencing below the
guideline range as “a different thing altogether.” The court
thus limited its comments regarding going to trial solely to
the determination of “the starting point.”
    Before imposing sentence, the district court discussed at
some length the factors it considered in imposing the
sentence, remarking that:

       [I]t is true that his upbringing and his life was
       very shameful; not so much for him, I’m
22                     USA V. AGUILERA


        talking about the circumstances under which
        he was raised.
        But here’s the thing: I can understand
        somebody stealing a loaf of bread out of the
        grocery [store] because their family is hungry
        and they have had [a] terrible upbringing.
        But I don’t understand why a terrible
        upbringing—that brings somebody to a state
        of a mind that they feel like they can take a
        gun, as a convicted felon, knowing they
        cannot—and shoot it up in the air and
        endanger people. There’s nothing about that
        poverty and that terrible upbringing that
        should excuse that. So I don’t buy that
        argument.

     The court, however, stated further:

        But what I do buy [as] a reduction is . . .—
        I’m taking into account the seriousness of—
        the standard factors. I think 51 months is too
        harsh for what he did here and for the needs
        of deterrence. But 45 months is the lowest
        sentence that will take into account the
        statutory factors.

    Finally, the district court referenced the lack of
contrition, stating that: “I don’t see where the contrition is.
He still thinks he should walk free.” In sum, the facts of this
case significantly undermine the majority’s reliance on
United States v. Hernandez, 894 F.3d 1104 (9th Cir. 2018).
   Unlike the facts in this case, in Hernandez the “district
court’s comments regarding Hernandez’s decision to go to
                          USA V. AGUILERA                            23


trial comprised virtually the entirety of the explanation for
the sentence.” Id. at 1111. Unlike the facts in this case, the
district court did not “specify which factors it
considered . . . or whether it considered any facts at all
beyond Hernandez’s decision to exercise his constitutional
rights.” Id. Indeed, we explained that our decision in
Hernandez is limited to the unique circumstance when the
court “[e]nhanc[es] a sentence solely because a defendant
chooses to go to trial.” Id. at 1112 (emphasis added). We
observed that “[i]t does not appear that the court based its
final decision on the facts of this case and on this particular
record as a whole.” Id. at 1111 (citation and internal
quotation marks omitted). We clarified that “a district court
does not commit reversible error simply because it notes the
fact that the defendant went to trial, so long as the court bases
its final decision on the facts of the case and record as a
whole.” Id. (quoting United States v. Rojas-Pedroza, 716
F.3d 1253, 1270 (9th Cir. 2013)) (internal quotation marks
omitted). The facts of this case fit squarely within our
holding in Rojas-Pedroza, cited with approval in Hernandez.
    To summarize, unlike the circumstances in Hernandez,
the district court in this case discussed the circumstances of
the offense, Aguilera’s background, its consideration of the
sentencing factors, and the lack of contrition. These facts
confirm that the district court “base[d] its final [sentencing]
decision on the facts of the case and record as a whole,”
Hernandez, 894 F.3d at 1111 (citations omitted), and not
solely on Aguilera’s election to proceed to trial. See id. at
1112. 1

1
  The majority accuses me of “fail[ing] to consider whether the district
court correctly calculated the Guidelines range when it denied the
24                         USA V. AGUILERA


    Finally, the majority opines that the declared error was
not harmless because the district “court did not conduct “a
separate analysis” of the 41 to 51-month range.” Majority
Opinion, p. 19. I disagree. The district court explicitly
stated that “45 months is the lowest sentence that will take
into account the statutory factors.” The court could have not
been any plainer regarding its view of the appropriate
sentence considering the facts of this case. See Molina-
Martinez v. United States, 578 U.S. 189, 200 (2016)
(explaining that a sentencing error may be harmless despite
an incorrect guidelines calculation if the record shows that
“the district court thought the sentence it chose was
appropriate irrespective of the Guidelines range”).
     I respectfully dissent.




acceptance of responsibility reduction.” Majority Opinion, p. 17 n.7.
However, this reasoning assumes that the district court erred in denying
the acceptance of responsibility reduction, an assumption I do not share.
