                               In the

    United States Court of Appeals
                 For the Seventh Circuit
                     ____________________
No. 25-1354
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
                                                  Plaintiﬀ-Appellant,
                                 v.

STEVEN ANDEREGG,
                                                 Defendant-Appellee.
                     ____________________

         Appeal from the United States District Court for the
                   Western District of Wisconsin.
         No. 3:24-cr-0050 — James D. Peterson, Chief Judge.
                     ____________________

   ARGUED OCTOBER 30, 2025 — DECIDED AUGUST 25, 2026
               ____________________

   Before LEE, PRYOR, and KOLAR, Circuit Judges.
    LEE, Circuit Judge. Steven Anderegg is charged with pro-
ducing, distributing, and possessing visual depictions of mi-
nors engaged in sexually explicit conduct and transferring
such material to a minor under the age of sixteen. According
to the government, Anderegg produced these images using
Stable Diﬀusion, a generative artiﬁcial intelligence (“GenAI”)
software that allowed him to create hyper-realistic images of
prepubescent children engaging in sexually explicit acts.
2                                                               No. 25-1354

    When Anderegg moved to dismiss the indictment, the dis-
trict court granted the motion as to the possession charge and
denied the remainder. In doing so, the court held that 18
U.S.C. § 1466A(b)(1) was unconstitutional as applied to An-
deregg because, under Stanley v. Georgia, individuals have a
First Amendment right to possess obscenity in the privacy of
their home. 394 U.S. 557 (1969). Moreover, in the district
court’s view, the government’s attempts to justify a prohibi-
tion on the possession of virtual child sexual abuse material
(“CSAM”) ran headlong into Ashcroft v. Free Speech Coalition,
where the Supreme Court rejected substantially identical ar-
guments. 1 535 U.S. 234, 250 (2002). This is despite the Su-
preme Court’s prior holding in Osborne v. Ohio, which permit-
ted the government to proscribe the in-home possession of


    1 Federal criminal law deﬁnes “child pornography” as the “visual de-

piction” of a minor “engaging in sexually explicit conduct.” 18 U.S.C.
§ 2256(8); see also United States v. Williams, 553 U.S. 285, 288 (2008) (child
pornography generally “consists of sexually explicit visual portrayals that
feature children.”). More recently, the Fourth Circuit has recognized that
“the term ‘child sexual abuse material’ more ‘accurately reﬂects what is
depicted—the sexual abuse and exploitation of children.’” United States v.
Tucker, 60 F.4th 879, 887 (4th Cir. 2023) (citation modiﬁed); see also Child
Sexual Abuse Material, U.S. Dep’t of Just. 1 (June 2023), https://www.jus-
tice.gov/d9/2023-06/child_sexual_abuse_material_2.pdf
[https://perma.cc/E3HM-AX7Q] (Department of Justice explaining that
although the term “child pornography” appears in some federal statutes,
the term “child sex abuse material” is preferred). Thus, the Fourth Circuit
has used “child sexual abuse material” interchangeably with the term
“child pornography” to “reﬂect more accurately the abusive and exploita-
tive nature of [the act].” United States v. Kuehner, 126 F.4th 319, 322 n.1 (4th
Cir. 2025). The Second Circuit has followed suit. United States v. Guard, 152
F.4th 375, 381 n.2 (2d Cir. 2025). Following their lead, we also employ the
term CSAM where possible.
No. 25-1354                                                    3

CSAM depicting actual children. 495 U.S. 103, 109–11 (1990).
The government then ﬁled this interlocutory appeal, chal-
lenging the dismissal of the possession charge.
    We now live in an age where GenAI models can render
images depicting the abuse of virtual children that are virtu-
ally indistinguishable from those depicting the abuse of actual
children. This case illuminates how this evolving technology
complicates the lines drawn by the Supreme Court in Stanley,
Osborne, and Free Speech Coalition. Indeed, in Free Speech Coali-
tion, the Supreme Court addressed the scope of First Amend-
ment protections for virtual CSAM, but that was nearly
twenty-ﬁve years ago, and the image-generation technology
available today was likely unimaginable back then. Given the
relentless advancement in artiﬁcial intelligence models, we
have some concerns about the lines these cases draw, but we
are not free to redraw them ourselves. See United States v.
Rush, 130 F.4th 633, 637, 638 (7th Cir. 2025) (“The rule of law
demands we follow binding Supreme Court precedent. …
[W]e leave to the Supreme Court the prerogative of overrul-
ing its own decisions.”). Because we conclude that Stanley and
Free Speech Coalition control Anderegg’s as-applied challenge
to § 1466A(b)(1), we must aﬃrm.
                        I. Background
   According to the government, in October 2023, Meta Plat-
forms, Instagram’s parent company, reported the online
transmission of potential CSAM to the CyberTipline of the
National Center for Missing and Exploited Children
(“NCMEC”). See 18 U.S.C. § 2258A. An Instagram user appar-
ently sent a direct message containing what appeared to be
AI-generated images depicting CSAM to an account belong-
ing to a minor. According to Meta, at least one image depicted
4                                                          No. 25-1354

“what appeared to be a … prepubescent juvenile male … with
his legs spread far apart exposing his erect penis.” Meta also
noted that the image appeared to be computer-generated. The
corresponding message history showed the account user ex-
plaining to the minor how he had created the images by in-
putting text prompts into Stable Diﬀusion, a text-to-image
GenAI model.
   Law enforcement linked the account to Anderegg, whose
résumé indicated that he was a software engineer with a back-
ground in AI models. Law enforcement then executed a
search warrant of his home, his personal laptop, two other cell
phones, and other devices.
    The government alleges that Anderegg installed Stable
Diﬀusion on his personal laptop and added software compo-
nents that provided the program with the ability to create de-
pictions of human genitalia. He then used the program to gen-
erate photo-realistic images of minors in sexually explicit po-
sitions. To produce these images, Anderegg used curated text
prompts to generate these images and further reﬁned the out-
put by employing negative prompts to exclude depictions of
adults. This process generated hundreds of images depicting
nude or semi-clothed prepubescent minors displaying or
touching their genitals. Other images, according to the gov-
ernment, portrayed prepubescent minors touching adult male
penises or engaging in sexual intercourse. 2
   Anderegg was charged with (1) “knowingly produc[ing]”
and (2) “knowingly distribut[ing]” visual depictions of

    2 The government concedes that the images for which Anderegg is

charged do not depict an actual child, nor can they be linked to an actual
child. Oral Argument at 21:43.
No. 25-1354                                                    5

minors engaged in sexually explicit conduct as well as (3)
“knowingly transferr[ing]” such material to a minor under
the age of sixteen in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1466A(a)(1),
(d)(1). He was also charged in Count 4 with “knowingly pos-
sess[ing] at least one visual depiction that depicted a minor
engaging in sexually explicit conduct and was obscene, and
any depiction involved in the oﬀense had been shipped and
transported in interstate and foreign commerce” in violation
of 18 U.S.C. § 1466A(b)(1), (d)(4).
    Anderegg ﬁled a ﬂurry of motions, including a motion to
dismiss Count 4. As to that count, he argued that being con-
victed of possessing CSAM would violate his First Amend-
ment rights as recognized by Stanley. The district court agreed
and dismissed the possession charge but left the remaining
counts intact. The government appeals.
                        II. Discussion
    We review de novo the district court’s determination that
§ 1466A(b)(1) is unconstitutional as applied to Anderegg. See
United States v. Sheikh, 164 F.4th 629, 633 (7th Cir. 2026) (“We
review the constitutionality of a federal statute de novo.”) (ci-
tation omitted). In considering an as-applied challenge, “we
examine only the facts of the case before us and not any set of
hypothetical facts under which the statute might be unconsti-
tutional.” United States v. Phillips, 645 F.3d 859, 863 (7th Cir.
2011). And, when reviewing the dismissal of Count 4, we ac-
cept the indictment’s allegations as true. United States v.
Moore, 563 F.3d 583, 586 (7th Cir. 2009). We start with a dis-
cussion of the Supreme Court cases most pertinent to our in-
quiry.
6                                                     No. 25-1354

A. Applicable Supreme Court Precedent
    1. Obscenity, CSAM, and the Home
    The First Amendment provides that “Congress shall make
no law … abridging the freedom of speech.” U.S. Const.
Amend. I. “At the same time, not all speech is protected.” Free
Speech Coal., Inc. v. Paxton, 606 U.S. 461, 471 (2025). Obscenity,
along with certain other categories of speech, has historically
fallen “outside the scope of the First Amendment.” Id. (cita-
tion omitted); see also Roth v. United States, 354 U.S. 476, 485
(1957) (“[O]bscenity is not within the area of constitutionally
protected speech.”). And, although the precise meaning of
“obscenity” is diﬃcult to pin down, the Supreme Court has
oﬀered the following articulation: “[S]peech is obscene to the
public at large—and thus proscribable—if (a) ‘the average
person, applying contemporary community standards[,]
would ﬁnd that the work, taken as a whole, appeals to the
prurient interest’; (b) ‘the work depicts or describes, in a pa-
tently oﬀensive way, sexual conduct speciﬁcally deﬁned by
the applicable state law’; and (c) ‘the work, taken as a whole,
lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientiﬁc value.’”
Paxton, 606 U.S. at 472 (quoting Miller v. California, 413 U.S. 15,
24 (1973)).
    At the same time, “[t]he Constitution extends special safe-
guards to the privacy of the home.” United States v. Orito, 413
U.S. 139, 142 (1973). The Supreme Court addressed the clash
of these two principles—the government’s interest in pro-
scribing obscenity and an individual’s privacy in one’s
home—in Stanley. 394 U.S. 557. There, law enforcement dis-
covered three reels of eight-millimeter ﬁlms containing ob-
scene material at the defendant’s home, and he was later
charged and convicted of knowingly possessing obscene
No. 25-1354                                                    7

matter in violation of Georgia law. The defendant challenged
the conviction on First Amendment grounds, and the Su-
preme Court agreed.
     Acknowledging that the government retains “broad
power to regulate obscenity,” the Supreme Court held that the
State’s “power simply does not extend to mere possession by
the individual in the privacy of his own home.” 394 U.S. at
568. “If the First Amendment means anything,” the Court ex-
plained, “it means that a State has no business telling a man,
sitting alone in his own house, what books he may read or
what ﬁlms he may watch.” Id. at 565.
    Along the way, the Court had no trouble rejecting the
State’s argument that its “right to protect the individual’s
mind from the eﬀects of obscenity” entitled it to reach into an
individual’s home. Id. Indeed, “the right to be free, except in
very limited circumstances, from unwanted governmental in-
trusions into one’s privacy,” the Supreme Court declared, is
“fundamental to our free society.” Id. at 564; see United States
v. Reidel, 402 U.S. 351, 356 (1971) (“The personal constitutional
rights of those like Stanley to possess and read obscenity in
their homes and their freedom of mind and thought do not
depend on whether the materials are obscene or whether ob-
scenity is constitutionally protected. Their rights to have and
view that material in private are independently saved by the
Constitution.”).
    Approximately a decade after Stanley, the Supreme Court
addressed whether the promotion and sale of CSAM impli-
cated First Amendment rights. In New York v. Ferber, New
York had enacted a broadly worded statute proscribing the
use of a child under the age of sixteen in a “performance” that
includes “sexual conduct.” 458 U.S. 747, 751 (1982) (citation
8                                                    No. 25-1354

omitted). The statute deﬁned “performance” as “any play,
motion picture, photograph or dance,” and deﬁned “sexual
conduct” as “actual or simulated sexual intercourse … or
lewd exhibition of the genitals.” Id. (citation modiﬁed). The
defendant was arrested after selling two ﬁlms to an under-
cover police oﬃcer that depicted young boys masturbating;
he was later convicted and appealed. The New York Court of
Appeals reversed, holding that the statute violated the First
Amendment because, among other things, it was over-inclu-
sive by prohibiting the distribution of “materials which are
traditionally entitled to constitutional protection,” such as
medical books and educational sources. Id. at 752 (citation
modiﬁed). In making this determination, the Court of Ap-
peals relied on a state-law deﬁnition of obscenity that mir-
rored the standard espoused in Miller. Id. at 753 (citation mod-
iﬁed).
    The Supreme Court reversed. Recognizing that the New
York Court of Appeals’ reliance on Miller was not “unreason-
able,” id., the Court nevertheless held that “[t]he test for child
pornography is separate from the obscenity standard enunci-
ated in Miller” because CSAM was diﬀerent from adult ob-
scene materials in several important ways, id. at 764. First, the
state’s interest in protecting the physical and psychological
well-being of minors and preventing the sexual exploitation
and abuse of children “constitute[d] a government objective
of surpassing importance.” Id. at 757. Second, the distribution
of CSAM was “intrinsically related to the sexual abuse of chil-
dren” because the materials “are a permanent record of the
children’s participation and the harm to the child is exacer-
bated by their circulation.” Id. at 759 (footnote omitted). Third,
the advertising and selling of CSAM “provide[d] an economic
motive for and are thus an integral part of the production of
No. 25-1354                                                     9

such materials.” Id. at 761 (footnote omitted). Fourth, the
value of performances and photographs of children engaged
in lewd sexual conduct was “exceedingly modest, if not de
minimis.” Id. at 762. Lastly, classifying CSAM as outside the
protection of the First Amendment was not inconsistent with
the historical approach the Court employed when analyzing
speech. Id. at 763. Thus, the Court concluded, CSAM (whether
obscene or not) was not constitutionally protected.
    Eight years later, the Supreme Court addressed whether
the protections articulated in Stanley would extend to the pos-
session of CSAM in one’s home. In Osborne v. Ohio, the de-
fendant was convicted of violating an Ohio law prohibiting
the possession and viewing of CSAM after the police found in
his home four photographs of adolescents in sexually explicit
positions. 495 U.S. at 107. In the defendant’s view, the statute
was unconstitutional under Stanley. The Supreme Court disa-
greed. “Stanley should not be read too broadly,” the Court re-
marked, adding that it had “previously noted that Stanley was
a narrow holding.” Id. at 108. The main distinction between
Osborne and Stanley, the Court observed, was “obvious”: “The
State does not rely on a paternalistic interest in regulating Os-
borne’s mind. Rather, Ohio has enacted [the statute] in order
to protect the victims of child pornography; it hopes to de-
stroy a market for the exploitative use of children.” Id. at 109.
    Thus, it was reasonable, the Supreme Court concluded, for
Ohio to believe that criminalizing the possession and viewing
of CSAM would lessen demand and decrease its production.
Id. at 109–10. “Given the importance of the State’s interest in
protecting the victims of child pornography,” the Court de-
clared, “we cannot fault Ohio for attempting to stamp out this
vice at all levels in the distribution chain.” Id. at 110. What is
10                                                    No. 25-1354

more, the Court observed that the distribution and viewing of
CSAM “permanently record the victim’s abuse” and “evi-
dence suggest[ed] that pedophiles use child pornography to
seduce other children into sexual activity.” Id. at 111 (citing
Ferber, 458 U.S. at 759). Such grave interests, the Supreme
Court held, allowed Ohio to prohibit the possession and view-
ing of CSAM even in one’s own home notwithstanding Stan-
ley. See United States v. 12 200-Foot Reels of Super 8mm. Film, 413
U.S. 123, 127 (1973) (noting that Stanley rests on an “explicitly
narrow and precisely delineated privacy right”); United States
v. Andersson, 803 F.2d 903, 906 (7th Cir. 1986) (ﬁnding that the
Supreme Court has “limited” Stanley’s holding “severely”).
     2. Free Speech Coalition—Virtual CSAM
    Before 1996, Congress had deﬁned child pornography as
images made using actual minors. 18 U.S.C. § 2252 (1994). But
with the rapid advancement of computer technology, Con-
gress passed the Child Pornography Prevention Act (“CPPA”)
in 1996 to expand federal prohibitions on CSAM. As relevant
here, the CPPA extended the ban beyond images involving
actual children to include “any visual depiction, including
any … computer-generated image or picture” that “is, or ap-
pears to be, of a minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct.”
18 U.S.C. § 2256(8)(B) (1996). Thus, the statute criminalized
the production, distribution, and possession of virtual CSAM,
that is, CSAM “produced without using any real children.”
Free Speech Coal., 535 U.S. at 239.
    In Ashcroft v. Free Speech Coalition, the Supreme Court con-
fronted the question of whether virtual CSAM, like actual
CSAM, was beyond the First Amendment’s reach. Id. at 234.
In that case, Free Speech Coalition, a trade association for the
adult-entertainment industry, mounted a facial challenge to
No. 25-1354                                                      11

§ 2256(8)(B), arguing that the provision violated its members’
First Amendment rights by chilling protected speech. Id. Tak-
ing great care to note that the materials at issue did not in-
volve actual children, the Supreme Court agreed.
    As an initial matter, the Supreme Court observed that the
CPPA sought “to reach beyond obscenity, and it makes no at-
tempt to conform to the Miller standard.” Id. at 240. Put an-
other way, “the CPPA cannot be read to prohibit obscenity,
because it lacks the required link between its prohibitions and
the aﬀront to community standards prohibited by the deﬁni-
tion of obscenity.” Id. at 249. As a result, the government re-
lied on Ferber, where the Supreme Court had allowed States
to regulate CSAM whether obscene or not. But the Supreme
Court found Ferber inapt.
    “By prohibiting child pornography that does not depict an
actual child,” the Court stated, “the statute goes beyond [Fer-
ber] which distinguished child pornography from other sex-
ually explicit speech because of the State’s interest in protect-
ing the children exploited by the production process.” Id. at
240 (citing Ferber, 458 U.S. at 747, 758); see Williams, 553 U.S. at
289 (“[T]he child-protection rationale for speech restriction
does not apply to materials produced without children.”)
(quoting Free Speech Coal., 535 U.S. at 249–51). Consistent with
this purpose, the statute challenged in Ferber had targeted the
“production of the work, not its content.” Id. at 249 (citation
modiﬁed). And Ferber upheld the statute’s prohibition on the
production, distribution, and sale of CSAM, because (1) the
material constituted “a permanent record of the child’s abuse,
the continued circulation itself would harm the child,” and (2)
“the traﬃc in child pornography was an economic motive for
its production.” Id. at 250 (citing Ferber, 458 U.S. at 759–60).
12                                                           No. 25-1354

Here, the CPPA targeted virtual CSAM, and because “virtual
child pornography is not intrinsically related to the sexual
abuse of children, as were the materials in Ferber,” id. at 250
(citation modiﬁed), the Court found Ferber not to control. 3
     For much the same reason, the Court remarked, Osborne
too was distinguishable, because it had “anchored its holding
in the concern for the participants, those whom it called the
‘victims of child pornography.’” Id. (citation modiﬁed). In Os-
borne, the state had a compelling interest in protecting chil-
dren by attempting to eliminate CSAM at all levels of the dis-
tribution chain and preventing CSAM from being used to so-
licit minors. Id. This was not the case in Free Speech Coalition,
the Supreme Court declared, because the depictions did not
involve actual children.
    The Supreme Court then proceeded to refute the various
arguments the government had raised to justify the CPPA’s
prohibition on virtual CSAM. First, the government argued
that the CPPA was necessary because virtual CSAM could be
used to seduce children. But, if this was the law’s purpose, the
Court concluded, it was “not narrowly drawn,” because
“[t]he Government cannot ban speech ﬁt for adults simply be-
cause it may fall into the hands of children.” Id. at 252.


     3 Importantly, the Supreme Court in Free Speech Coalition distin-

guished § 2256(8)(B) from § 2256(8)(C), which “prohibits a more common
and lower tech means of creating virtual images, known as computer
morphing,” where creators alter innocent images of real children so that
they appear to be engaging in sexual acts. Id. at 242. “Although morphed
images may fall within the deﬁnition of virtual child pornography,” the
Court remarked, “they implicate the interests of real children and are in
that sense closer to the images in Ferber. Respondents do not challenge this
provision, and we do not consider it.” Id.
No. 25-1354                                                 13

    Second, the government argued that virtual CSAM “whets
the appetites of pedophiles and encourages them to engage in
illegal conduct.” Id. at 253. But again the Supreme Court was
unpersuaded. “The mere tendency of speech to encourage un-
lawful acts is not a suﬃcient reason for banning it,” the Court
noted, and the government had “shown no more than a re-
mote connection between speech that might encourage
thoughts or impulses and any resulting child abuse.” Id.
    Third, in the government’s view, it was necessary to pro-
scribe virtual CSAM if it wanted to accomplish its goal to
eliminate the market for real CSAM. The Court, however,
found this theory “implausible,” noting that if the two were
completely interchangeable, the actual images would be
“driven from the market by the indistinguishable substi-
tutes,” since “[f]ew pornographers would risk prosecution by
abusing real children if ﬁctional, computerized images would
suﬃce.” Id. at 254.
    For its ﬁnal argument, the government asserted that, be-
cause it was often hard to distinguish virtual CSAM from real
CSAM, prosecuting those who produced such material using
actual children was very diﬃcult. But the Court made short
shrift of this argument, declaring that “[t]he Government may
not suppress lawful speech as the means to suppress unlaw-
ful speech. Protected speech does not become unprotected
merely because it resembles the latter.” Id. at 255.
   After Free Speech Coalition, Congress went back to the
drawing board and enacted the statute at issue here. The Pros-
ecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to end the Exploitation of
Children Today Act of 2003 (“PROTECT Act”) included a new
provision which, in part, proscribed possession of “a visual
depiction of any kind … that (1)(A) depicts a minor engaging
14                                                 No. 25-1354

in sexually explicit conduct; and (B) is obscene.” 18 U.S.C.
§ 1466A(a)(1), (b)(1) (emphasis added). This includes any
“digital image or picture, computer image or picture, or com-
puter generated image or picture.” 18 U.S.C. § 1466A(f)(1).
And it expressly does not require that “the minor depicted ac-
tually exist.” 18 U.S.C. § 1466A(c).
B. The Merits
    Here, Anderegg challenges the count charging him with
possessing obscene virtual CSAM. Anderegg relies on Stanley
to argue that § 1466A(b)(1) is unconstitutional as applied to
him. In essence, he asserts that obscene virtual CSAM should
have the same protections as other obscene materials when
possessed and viewed at home. Unpacking this argument re-
quires several parts. First, assuming for the sake of argument
that obscene virtual CSAM is equivalent to other forms of ob-
scenity, we must assess whether Anderegg’s circumstances
would fall within the contours of Stanley. If the answer to that
question is yes, we must evaluate whether obscene virtual
CSAM, like actual CSAM, should be treated diﬀerently from
obscene material generally (and therefore fall outside Stan-
ley’s purview) for the reasons articulated in Osborne. Finally,
as we consider this second question, we must be mindful of
the diﬀerences between virtual CSAM and actual CSAM that
the Supreme Court identiﬁed in Free Speech Coalition.
     1. Stanley
   First, the government asks us to distinguish this case from
Stanley in two ways. First, it contends that Anderegg’s alleged
possession has a nexus with interstate commerce whereas
Stanley’s did not. Second, the government reads Stanley to
No. 25-1354                                                             15

apply only to obscene materials depicting adults not children.
Neither argument is persuasive.
    Under § 1466A(d)(4), the depiction (or materials used to
produce the depiction) must be “shipped or transported in in-
terstate or foreign commerce by any means, including by
computer.” 18 U.S.C. § 1466A(d)(4). According to the govern-
ment, “Stanley does not apply where the criminal conduct was
facilitated through the use of interstate commerce.” Because,
the argument goes, the government must prove the interstate-
commerce link before Anderegg could be convicted under
§ 1466A(b)(1), Count 4 criminalizes more than the mere pos-
session of obscene material in his home. 4 Instead, it criminal-
izes Anderegg’s use of interstate commerce to come into pos-
session of obscene and sexually explicit images of children.
    It is true that Stanley only applies to in-home possession of
obscenity and that “commerce in obscene material is unpro-
tected by any constitutional doctrine of privacy.” Paris Adult
Theatre I v. Slaton, 413 U.S. 49, 69 (1973) (citations omitted).
This is so because “the protected right to possess obscene ma-
terial in the privacy of one’s home does not give rise to a cor-
relative right to have someone sell or give it to others.” 12 200-
Foot Reels, 413 U.S. at 128 (citations omitted). “Nor is there any
correlative right to transport obscene material in interstate
commerce.” Id. (citation omitted).
   As the Fourth Circuit put it, Stanley “did not prohibit the
government from regulating the channels of commerce.”


   4 The government notes that at trial, it “intends to prove that the com-

puter that Anderegg used to produce and possess his imagery had trav-
eled in interstate commerce and that he had downloaded Stable Diﬀusion
from the internet to create those images.”
16                                                    No. 25-1354

United States v. Whorley, 550 F.3d 326, 332 (4th Cir. 2008). And,
pursuant to the Commerce Clause, “Congress may impose
relevant conditions and requirements on those who use the
channels of interstate commerce in order that those channels
will not become the means of promoting or spreading evil,
whether of a physical, moral or economic nature.” Orito, 413
U.S. at 144 (quoting N. Am. Co. v. SEC, 327 U.S. 686, 705
(1946)).
    Nevertheless, we are not convinced by the government’s
reasoning. The interstate-commerce requirement does not
change the fact that the government is using § 1466A(d)(4) to
punish Anderegg for possessing obscene material in the
home. Although the right Stanley pronounced may be narrow,
it speaks to the crux of the oﬀense alleged here—Anderegg’s
actions in “the privacy of the home.” Paris Adult Theatre, 413
U.S. at 66 (citation modiﬁed).
    Furthermore, it is worth noting that later Supreme Court
cases narrowing Stanley all involved to some degree the im-
porting, transporting, or distributing of obscene materials;
none expressly addressed in-home possession in and of itself.
See, e.g., United States v. Thirty-Seven (37) Photographs, 402 U.S.
363, 376 (1971) (selling or giving obscene material to others);
12 200-Foot Reels, 413 U.S. at 128 (importing obscene materials
even for private use); Orito, 413 U.S. at 141–43 (transporting
obscene material in interstate commerce); Whorley, 550 F.3d at
333 (distinguishing Stanley by “focusing on the movement of
obscene material in channels of commerce, and not on its
mere possession.”).
   Similarly, here, the government has also charged An-
deregg with production of obscene virtual CSAM (Count 1)
and with distributing and transferring obscene virtual CSAM
No. 25-1354                                                              17

(Counts 2 and 3). The question before us is narrow: does the
First Amendment allow the government to proscribe the in-
home possession of obscene virtual CSAM. And, during oral
argument, the government conceded that, with respect to
Count 4, it planned to rely solely on the fact that Anderegg
possessed the obscene material in his home. Oral Argument
at 6:46.
    Thus, as a practical matter, the government’s interstate-
commerce argument has no force. As the district court ob-
served, “the obscene materials in Stanley (reels of eight-milli-
meter ﬁlm) almost certainly moved in interstate commerce
too.” But this did not matter to the Supreme Court in Stanley.
Once the production materials left the public sphere and en-
tered the home, the government’s regulatory power was
eclipsed by the individual’s First Amendment “right to re-
ceive information and ideas, regardless of their social worth.”
Stanley, 394 U.S. at 564. 5


    5 The purpose of the interstate-commerce requirement is likely less

substantive and more jurisdictional. “In our federal system, ‘Congress
cannot punish felonies generally,’ Cohens v. Virginia, 6 Wheat. 264, 428
(1821); it may enact only those criminal laws that are connected to one of
its constitutionally enumerated powers, such as the authority to regulate
interstate commerce. As a result, most federal oﬀenses include, in addition
to substantive elements, a jurisdictional one, like the interstate commerce
requirement.” Torres v. Lynch, 578 U.S. 452, 457 (2016). And “[j]urisdic-
tional elements do not describe the ‘evil Congress seeks to prevent,’ but
instead simply ensure that the Federal Government has the constitutional
authority to regulate the defendant’s conduct.” Rehaif v. United States, 588
U.S. 225, 230 (2019) (citation omitted). “Because jurisdictional elements
normally have nothing to do with the wrongfulness of the defendant’s
conduct,” id., we hesitate to rely on them as meaningful distinctions for
purposes of substantive constitutional analysis.
18                                                   No. 25-1354

   The government next posits that Stanley is best read as ap-
plying only to obscene materials involving adults engaged in
sexually explicit activity, not children. According to the gov-
ernment, the phrase “obscene material” from Stanley does not
necessarily cover the entire universe of obscene materials. Ra-
ther, citing Williams, 553 U.S. at 288, the government argues
that “obscene material” is best understood to only address the
obscene material at issue there, adult pornography.
    We see no basis to read Stanley in such a limited fashion. It
is true that in Williams, the Supreme Court stated, “We have
held that the government may criminalize the possession of
child pornography, even though it may not criminalize the
mere possession of obscene material involving adults.” Id. But
immediately following this sentence, the Court cited to Stan-
ley with Osborne. Rather than inferring from the words “in-
volving adults” the broad proposition the Supreme Court
would apply Stanley only to obscene adult-based materials,
the sentence is better understood to reﬂect the distinction its
cases have historically drawn between CSAM and obscenity
generally. See Nat’l Pork Producers Council v. Ross, 598 U.S. 356,
373 (2023) (“The language of an opinion is not always to be
parsed as though we were dealing with the language of a stat-
ute.”). What is more, the reasoning of Stanley did not turn on
the contents of the obscene materials at issue, rather its hold-
ing was predicated on the location—the home. See 394 U.S. at
568 (“[The] power to regulate obscenity … simply does not
extend to mere possession by the individual in the privacy of
his own home.”).
    Accordingly, assuming that the First Amendment would
treat obscene virtual CSAM the same as other obscene
No. 25-1354                                                   19

materials, we conclude that the facts of this case fall within
the bounds of Stanley.
   2. Virtual CSAM versus CSAM
     The preceding conclusion begs the next question: whether,
for First Amendment purposes, obscene virtual CSAM is
more akin to actual CSAM or obscene materials generally. If
it is the former, then Osborne and not Stanley would apply. To
recap: Stanley prohibits the criminalization of possession of
obscene material in the home. Ferber held that CSAM involv-
ing actual children is not obscenity but its own category of
speech not entitled to First Amendment protection due to the
government’s compelling interests in protecting child vic-
tims. For the same reasons, Osborne permits the government
to proscribe the possession of CSAM involving actual chil-
dren in the home. Then came Free Speech Coalition, which pro-
hibits the criminalization of CSAM that involves no actual
children and that is not obscene. Anderegg is charged with
possessing in his home virtual CSAM that does not depict an
actual child but that is obscene.
    Because the images for which Anderegg is charged do not
depict an actual child, Ferber and Osborne do not directly ap-
ply to this case. See Free Speech Coal., 535 U.S. at 249–51. That
said, Stanley left open the possibility that “compelling reasons
may exist for overriding the right of the individual to possess
[certain] materials.” 394 U.S. at 568 n.11.
     The government argues that the same compelling interest
the Supreme Court recognized in Ferber and Osborne exists
here—the protection of actual children from sexual exploita-
tion and abuse. And it attempts to distinguish Free Speech Co-
alition by pointing out that § 1466A(b)(1) is limited to obscene
20                                                    No. 25-1354

material unlike the statute in Free Speech Coalition. The prob-
lem for the government, however, is that the justiﬁcations it
oﬀers here for proscribing the possession of obscene virtual
CSAM were all expressly discussed and rejected by the Su-
preme Court in Free Speech Coalition.
    First, the government argues that oﬀenders may use ob-
scene virtual CSAM to groom minors into engaging in sex-
ually explicit conduct. To be sure, it is well-known that abus-
ers utilize obscene images to groom their minor victims. See,
e.g., United States v. Chambers, 642 F.3d 588, 593 (7th Cir. 2011);
United States v. Reilly, 662 F.3d 754, 761 (6th Cir. 2011); United
States v. Reaves, 253 F.3d 1201, 1205 (10th Cir. 2001); Child Por-
nography Prevention Act of 1996, Pub. L. No. 104-208, § 121
subsection 1(8), 110 Stat. 3009 (congressional ﬁnding that the
grooming risks are “the same” whether the imagery shows
actual or computer-generated children). Moreover, as techno-
logical advances allow creators to render virtual images indis-
tinguishable from real ones, virtual CSAM may come to pose
more of a danger than the cartoons or video games referenced
in Free Speech Coalition. But we cannot ignore the fact that the
Supreme Court ﬂatly rejected the same argument the govern-
ment advances here. Free Speech Coal., 535 U.S. at 251. In the
Supreme Court’s words, “the government may not prohibit
speech because it increases the chance an unlawful act will be
committed at some indeﬁnite future time.” Id. at 253 (citation
modiﬁed).
    Relatedly, the government argues that an individual’s en-
gagement with AI-generated material depicting children en-
gaged in sexual conduct may normalize sexual activity with
children in a way that poses risks to actual children. But, once
again, Free Speech Coalition is on all fours. “Without a
No. 25-1354                                                            21

signiﬁcantly stronger, more direct connection [between vir-
tual CSAM and child exploitation],” the Supreme Court de-
clared, “the Government may not prohibit speech on the
ground that it may encourage pedophiles to engage in illegal
conduct.” Id. at 253–54.
    To be sure, the Supreme Court left open the door for the
government to make “a signiﬁcantly stronger, more direct
connection” between virtual CSAM and child abuse. Id. But,
rather than providing more support for its contention here,
the government merely restates the same arguments it made
in Free Speech Coalition. Compare Brief for the Petitioners at 4–
5, Ashcroft v. Free Speech Coal., 535 U.S. 234 (2002) (No. 00-795)
2001 WL 432538, at *4–5 (arguing that Congress determined
that “child pornography is often used as part of a method of
seducing other children into sexual activity,” and “Congress
found that computer-generated images of children engaged
in sexually explicit conduct can be just as eﬀective in seducing
children into sexual activity as photographic images of real
children.”), with Opening Brief for the United States at 15,
United States v. Anderegg, No. 25-1354 (7th Cir. May 14, 2025)
(“[O]ﬀenders may use images of the type that Anderegg pos-
sessed, like they commonly use similar-type images showing
actual children, to groom minors into engaging in sexually ex-
plicit conduct.”). 6


    6 Our own nonexhaustive perusal of the relevant literature reveals in-

conclusive results. Most recently, the United States Sentencing Commis-
sion released a study ﬁnding that “43.9 percent of possession oﬀenders …
engaged in aggravating conduct either prior to or concurrently with their
instant federal child pornography oﬀense.” U.S. Sent’g Comm’n, Federal
Sentencing of Child Pornography, Non-Production Oﬀenses, 41 (2021).
22                                                            No. 25-1354

    Next, the government argues that prohibiting the posses-
sion of obscene virtual CSAM will help the government re-
duce the commercial market for actual CSAM. But the Su-
preme Court in Free Speech Coalition squarely addressed and
rejected this argument as well, ﬁnding it “somewhat implau-
sible.” Free Speech Coal., 535 U.S. at 254. After all, the Court
noted, if the demand for virtual CSAM were the same as for
actual CSAM, few would create actual CSAM and “risk pros-
ecution by abusing real children if ﬁctional, computerized im-
ages would suﬃce.” Id.
   Finally, the government argues that due to technological
advancements, AI-generated images are becoming increas-
ingly indistinguishable from imagery depicting actual chil-
dren, making the task of proving that an image depicts an ac-
tual child increasingly diﬃcult. Thus, permitting the in-home
possession of virtual CSAM, it contends, would make prose-
cuting the possession of actual CSAM exceedingly compli-
cated and may insulate oﬀenders who possess images of


“Most current social science research suggests that viewing child pornog-
raphy, in the absence of other risk factors, does not “cause” individuals to
commit sex oﬀenses.” U.S. Sent’g Comm’n, Federal Child Pornography
Oﬀenses 102 (2012) (citation modiﬁed). As such, it remains “unclear if (a)
fantasies encourage the acting out of behaviors, (b) fantasies represent ac-
tive reliving of previous acts, or (c) some third variable (e.g., sex drive)
independently generates both fantasies and behavior.” Kevin M. Williams
et al., Inferring Sexually Deviant Behavior From Corresponding Fantasies: The
Role of Personality and Pornography Consumption, 36 Crim. Justice & Behav.
198, 206 (2009) (citation modiﬁed). Indeed, “some research reports that,
for oﬀenders who were already assessed as low risk for future sexual of-
fending, frequency of pornography use does not appear to predict crimi-
nal recidivism.” U.S. Sent’g Comm’n, Federal Child Pornography Of-
fenses, 104 (2012).
No. 25-1354                                                       23

actual children. Along similar lines, the government worries
that it will be forced to spend its limited time and resources
searching for children who do not exist to the detriment of
children who do exist.
     And so, the government urges us to look beyond Free
Speech Coalition entirely, given the twenty-three years that
have passed since the case was decided. Cf. Paxton, 606 U.S. at
489 (noting that Free Speech Coalition was decided “when the
internet was ‘still more of a prototype than a ﬁnished prod-
uct’”) (citation omitted). But despite the rapid advances in
technology over that span, “[t]he broad authority to proscribe
child pornography is not … unlimited.” Williams, 553 U.S. at
289. And the argument the government advances today—that
it is becoming increasingly diﬃcult to distinguish between
virtual CSAM and CSAM produced with actual children—is
still identical to the one the Supreme Court rejected in Free
Speech Coalition.
   Given the ever-accelerating march of imaging-generation
technology, we have some misgivings about applying Free
Speech Coalition here, but “unless we wish anarchy to prevail
within the federal judicial system,” we are dutybound to fol-
low it. Hutto v. Davis, 454 U.S. 370, 375 (1982); see id. (“[A] prec-
edent of this Court must be followed by the lower federal
courts no matter how misguided the judges of those courts
may think it to be.”); see Paxton, 606 U.S. at 491 (noting that
cases “do not cease to be precedential simply because technol-
ogy has changed so dramatically”).
   In sum, because Anderegg is accused of possessing ob-
scene materials at home, we agree that his circumstances fall
within the bounds of Stanley. And, because the arguments the
government advances to remove the materials in question
24                                               No. 25-1354

from Stanley’s purview have all been squarely rejected by the
Supreme Court in Free Speech Coalition, we conclude that
§ 1466A(b)(1) is unconstitutional as applied to Anderegg.
                       *      *     *
     For the foregoing reasons, the judgment is AFFIRMED.
No. 25-1354                                                   25

    LEE, Circuit Judge, joined by KOLAR, Circuit Judge, concur-
ring. As the court’s opinion explains, this case is controlled by
Stanley and Free Speech Coalition. I write separately to note
that, given the signiﬁcant advances in computer-generated
image technology, particularly in the ﬁeld of artiﬁcial intelli-
gence, we would beneﬁt from additional guidance from the
Supreme Court regarding the intersection between the First
Amendment and virtual CSAM if an appropriate case should
arise.
    As one commentator observed, “In 2002, the Court’s rea-
soning [in Free Speech Coalition] made sense: Technology was
far less developed than it is today.” Jessica L. Terkovich, The
Emerging Danger of AI-Generated Child Sexual Abuse Material
and an Unprepared Crim. Code, 45 N. Ill. U. L. Rev. 398, 404
(2025). Yet nearly twenty ﬁve years after the Court’s decision,
Free Speech Coalition controls in a day where “AI-generated
CSAM is virtually indistinguishable from CSAM created
through the physical abuse of a child.” Id.; see Cecilia Kang,
A.I.-Generated Images of Child Sexual Abuse Are Flooding the In-
ternet, N.Y. Times (July 18, 2025), https://www.ny-
times.com/2025/07/10/technology/ai-csam-child-sexual-
abuse.html [https://perma.cc/HZ2A-Y9MN] (“Only in recent
months have A.I. tools become good enough to trick the hu-
man eye with an image or video.”).
   At the time of Free Speech Coalition, several Justices pre-
dicted as much. Justice O’Connor echoed many of the con-
cerns the government argues today, namely that “rapidly ad-
vancing technology soon will make it all but impossible to”
enforce prohibitions of actual CSAM and “[c]omputer-gener-
ated images … bear a remarkable likeness to actual human
26                                                 No. 25-1354

beings.” Free Speech Coal., 535 U.S. at 267, 264 (O’Connor, J.
concurring in the judgment in part and dissenting in part).
    Justice Thomas too forecasted that “technology may
evolve to the point where it becomes impossible to enforce ac-
tual child pornography laws because the Government cannot
prove that certain pornographic images are of real children.”
Id. at 259 (Thomas, J. concurring). In his view, “if technologi-
cal advances thwart prosecution of ‘unlawful speech,’ the
Government may well have a compelling interest in barring
or otherwise regulating some narrow category of ‘lawful
speech’ in order to enforce eﬀectively laws against pornogra-
phy made through the abuse of real children.” Id.
    According to some experts, that day may have arrived. Re-
cent data suggests that the influx of AI-generated images re-
ported to the NCMEC CyberTipline imposes increasing bur-
dens on law enforcement. See Addressing Real Harm Done by
Deepfakes: Hearing Before the Subcomm. on Cybersecurity, Info.
Tech., and Gov’t Innovation of the H. Comm. on Oversight and Ac-
countability, 118th Cong. 6 (2024) (testimony of John Shehan,
Vice      President,      Exploited      Children     Division,
NCMEC), https://www.congress.gov/118/meeting/house/116
953/witnesses/HHRG-118-GO12-Wstate-ShehanJ-
20240312.pdf [https://perma.cc/94JL-EAZK]; see also Genera-
tive AI CSAM is CSAM, Nat’l Ctr. for Missing & Exploited
Child.      (Mar.     11,       2024),   https://www.missing-
kids.org/blog/2024/generative-ai-csam-is-csam
[https://perma.cc/37KT-AZ5N] (“Even the images that do not
depict a real child put a strain on law enforcement resources
and impede identification of real child victims.”); State Laws
Criminalizing AI-Generated or Computer-Edited Child Sexual
Abuse        Material      (CSAM),        Enough         Abuse,
No. 25-1354                                                  27

https://enoughabuse.org/get-vocal/laws-by-state/state-laws-
criminalizing-ai-generated-or-computer-edited-child-sexual-
abuse-material-csam/ [https://perma.cc/KS7J-YCB5] (noting
that perpetrators may “disguise pictures of real children be-
ing abused by making the image look computer-generated”).
   What is more, AI-generated CSAM may also present other
challenges not raised by the government in this appeal. For
example, researchers have found that “a major dataset used
for training image-generating AI contained hundreds of
CSAM images.” Benjamin L.W. Sobel, A Real Account of Deep
Fakes, 124 Mich. L. Rev. 871, 930 (2026) (citation omitted).
Thus, unlike the virtual CSAM at issue in Free Speech Coalition,
the market for AI-generated virtual CSAM images may im-
pact the demand for actual CSAM on which the AI models
can train. Such a ﬁnding would implicate many of the con-
cerns raised in Osborne. See 495 U.S. at 110.
    In this case, the record is insuﬃcient to evaluate these
complex issues, and, of course, we are bound by the dictates
of Free Speech Coalition. But it goes without saying that “[t]he
prevention of sexual exploitation and abuse of children con-
stitutes a government objective of surpassing importance.”
Ferber, 458 U.S. at 757. The stakes are high, and we must be
mindful of the ever-accelerating advancements in image gen-
eration technology.
