                                     Cite as 2025 Ark. 221
                 SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS

                                                   Opinion Delivered: December 11, 2025

IN RE AMENDMENTS TO THE
ARKANSAS RULES OF PROFESSIONAL
CONDUCT




                                         PER CURIAM

        On June 5, 2025, we published proposed amendments to the Arkansas Rules of

 Professional Conduct addressing the impact of the expansion of artificial intelligence for the

 legal practice in Arkansas. See In re Amends. to the Ark. Rules of Prof’l Conduct, 2025 Ark. 115

 (per curiam). The amendments add a paragraph to the Preamble and alter the heading of

 Rule 5.3 of the Arkansas Rules of Professional Conduct.

        The comment period closed, and we now adopt these amendments effective

 immediately. The amendments are shown in “line-in, line-out” form.



 PREAMBLE

        ...

 [22] Unless otherwise specified, nothing in these rules prohibits an attorney’s use of non-
 human assistance, including, but not limited to, artificial intelligence (AI). However, the use
 of non-human assistance does not excuse or mitigate any violation of the rules that occurs
from using such assistance. Please be advised of Administrative Order No. 25 before using
AI.


RULE 5.3. RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING NONLAWYER

ASSISTANTSASSISTANCE.

With respect to a nonlawyer assistance, employed or retained by or associated with a lawyer:

(a) a partner, and a lawyer who individually or together with other lawyers possesses
comparable managerial authority in a law firm, shall make reasonable efforts to ensure that
the firm has in effect measures giving reasonable assurance that the nonlawyer assistance
person’s conduct is compatible with the professional obligations of the lawyer;

(b) a lawyer having direct supervisory authority over the nonlawyer assistance shall make
reasonable efforts to ensure that the nonlawyer assistance person’s conduct is compatible
with the professional obligations of the lawyer; and

(c) a lawyer shall be responsible for conduct of such a person a nonlawyer assistance that
would be a violation of the rules of professional conduct if engaged in by a lawyer if:

       (1) the lawyer orders or, with the knowledge of the specific use or conduct, ratifies
       the use or conduct involved; or
       (2) the lawyer is a partner or has comparable managerial authority in the law firm in
       which the nonlawyer assistance person is used employed, or has the direct supervisory
       authority over the use over the person, and knows of the conduct or use at a time
       when its consequences can be avoided or mitigated but fails to take reasonable
       remedial action.


Comment:

For purposes of this Rule, “nonlawyer assistance” includes services performed by human
personnel and by technological tools such as generative artificial intelligence platforms.




                                             2
