[Cite as State v. Davis, 2026-Ohio-2993.]



             IN THE COURT OF APPEALS OF OHIO
                              SEVENTH APPELLATE DISTRICT
                                 COLUMBIANA COUNTY

                                            STATE OF OHIO,

                                             Plaintiff-Appellee,

                                                     v.

                                       JACOB ISAAC DAVIS,

                                        Defendant-Appellant.


                        OPINION AND JUDGMENT ENTRY
                                            Case No. 25 CO 0050


                               Criminal Appeal from the
              Columbiana County Municipal Court of Columbiana County, Ohio
                             Case No. 2025 TRD 002564

                                           BEFORE:
                    Cheryl L. Waite, Mark A. Hanni, Katelyn Dickey, Judges.


                                                JUDGMENT:
                                                  Affirmed.


Atty. Vito J. Abruzzino, Columbiana County Prosecutor, and Atty. Christopher R. W.
Weeda, Assistant Prosecutor, for Plaintiff-Appellee


Jacob Davis, Pro se, Defendant-Appellant

                                            Dated: August 3, 2026
                                                                                       –2–


WAITE, P.J.

       {¶1}   Appellant Jacob Isaac Davis appeals his bench trial conviction in the trial

court on a minor misdemeanor traffic infraction. He alleges that six errors occurred in the

trial process involving his citation for speeding. Appellant was cited for driving 86 m.p.h.

in a 70 m.p.h. zone. Appellant now complains of speedy trial violations, discovery

violations, an abuse of discretion in the court granting the state a continuance, and he

contends the conviction is against the sufficiency and weight of the evidence. Appellant

also raises cumulative error. Appellant filed a waiver of speedy trial, and all his speedy

trial objections fail. The judge had the discretion to grant a continuance to the state, and

Appellant has not pointed to any abuse of discretion in this continuance. The prosecutor

provided Appellant with the required discovery, and any additional discovery Appellant

alleges was not provided was not required under Crim.R. 16(B).            His conviction is

supported by the sufficiency and weight of the evidence. As Appellant has not shown

that any errors occurred at trial, he cannot show cumulative error. Based on this record,

all of Appellant’s arguments are meritless and the judgment of the trial court is affirmed.

                              Facts and Procedural History

       {¶2}   On May 26, 2025 Sergeant Stephen Murphy of the Ohio State Highway

Patrol initiated a traffic stop of Appellant for excessive speed. Using a radar device, Sgt.

Murphy recorded Appellant traveling at 86 m.p.h. in a 70 m.p.h. zone on State Route 11

in Elkrun Township, Columbiana County.           Sgt. Murphy gave Appellant a minor

misdemeanor traffic citation for speeding, pursuant to R.C. 4511.21. The citation was

filed on May 27, 2025.

       {¶3}   On June 12, 2025 Appellant was arraigned in the Columbiana County

Municipal Court. Appellant proceeded pro se at trial, and pleaded not guilty. During

Case No. 25 CO 0050
                                                                                          –3–


arraignment, the trial judge stated: “We'll have you sign the time waiver and schedule the

pretrial for you to come back in to speak to the prosecutor, explain your position, and

hopefully get this resolved. Okay?” (6/12/25 Tr., p. 3.) Appellant answered: “Thank you,

Your Honor.” (6/12/25 Tr., p. 3.) Appellant agreed to set pre-trial on August 26, 2025,

affirming that the date worked with his schedule. (6/12/25 Tr., p. 3.) On June 12, 2025

Appellant signed a written waiver of speedy trial time. He also filed a written request for

discovery.

       {¶4}   On June 27, 2025 Appellant filed a motion to dismiss for discovery

violations. He also filed an affidavit regarding an alleged speedy trial violation, but did not

file a motion to dismiss on speedy trial grounds. On June 30, 2025 the court ruled that

pending motions would be heard at the August 26, 2025 pre-trial hearing.

       {¶5}   On July 18, 2025 Appellant filed a motion to advance the hearing on his

pending motions. Appellant claimed to have three motions pending: a motion to dismiss

for speedy trial; a motion to dismiss for failure to provide discovery; and a motion to

exclude evidence.

       {¶6}   At the August 26, 2025 hearing, Appellant sought to proceed on what he

believed were three pending motions. However, Appellant and the trial court agreed at

the start of the hearing that no motion to exclude evidence had been filed, and so the

issue would not be heard. (8/26/25 Tr., p. 5.) The parties also discussed whether a

pending speedy trial motion existed. It was agreed that no motion was ever filed, although

an affidavit discussing speedy trial issues had been filed. (8/26/25 Tr., p. 10.) The court

stated: “All that was filed was this affidavit.” (8/26/25 Tr., p. 10.) Appellant answered:

“Sure.” (8/26/15 Tr., p. 10.) Appellant agreed that if he actually filed a motion to dismiss

on speedy trial grounds in the future, it could be heard at the time of trial. (8/26/25 Tr., p.

Case No. 25 CO 0050
                                                                                        –4–


11.) The court then heard his motion to dismiss for failure to provide discovery. Appellant

argued that the state violated Crim.R. 16 by failing to respond to a written motion for

discovery. The prosecutor noted that discovery had been provided and that Appellant

was not prejudiced, because he had the remaining time until trial to use the materials for

his defense. The court overruled Appellant’s motion and trial was set for October 21,

2025.

        {¶7}   On August 26, 2025, after the pre-trial hearing had already concluded,

Appellant filed a motion to dismiss for speedy trial. In the motion Appellant alleged that

he had not caused any delay in the case and did not waive his right to speedy trial.

        {¶8}   On October 20, 2025 the state filed a motion for continuance of the trial

because Sgt. Murphy was unavailable on the scheduled trial date. The court granted a

continuance until November 18, 2025.

        {¶9}   On October 24, 2025 Appellant filed various motions: a motion to invalidate

the state’s continuance; a motion to dismiss for unnecessary delay; a renewed motion to

dismiss for speedy trial and invalid waiver; a motion in limine to exclude radar-based

evidence; and a supplemental motion to dismiss for failure to provide discovery. The trial

court ordered that the motions would be heard on November 18, 2025.

        {¶10} The court dealt with the pending motions immediately prior to the start of

the bench trial on November 18, 2025. Appellant argued that he unknowingly signed his

waiver of time. Appellant admitted he did not read the waiver and did not pay attention

to the court’s orientation video that explained the waiver of speedy trial time. (11/18/25

Tr., pp. 5-6.) In addition to the signed waiver, the state raised the argument that various

actions taken by Appellant tolled the speedy trial clock, and that there were still 13 days

left to bring Appellant to trial. After hearing testimony from Appellant, the court overruled

Case No. 25 CO 0050
                                                                                          –5–


his motion to dismiss for speedy trial. The court heard additional testimony regarding the

discovery matter and then overruled Appellant’s supplemental motion to dismiss for

failure to provide discovery. The court then began trial in this matter.

       {¶11} Sgt. Murphy, the sole witness at trial, testified about his training and

certifications, the traffic stop, the use of a radar gun, the calibration of the radar gun, how

Appellant’s speed violation was determined, and the identification of Appellant as the

defendant. The state moved to introduce Sgt. Murphy’s qualifications and the radar

device evidence as exhibits. Appellant did not offer any witnesses or evidence. The court

found that Sgt. Murphy’s testimony was credible, the use of a radar gun was established

as a reliable method to determine the speed of Appellant’s vehicle, and that the state

proved its case beyond a reasonable doubt. The court found Appellant guilty and fined

him $75. The court filed the final order in this matter on November 18, 2025. Appellant

then filed a timely appeal, again acting pro se.

                             ASSIGNMENT OF ERROR NO. 1


       THE TRIAL COURT ERRED IN DENYING APPELLANT’S MOTION TO

       DISMISS FOR SPEEDY TRIAL VIOLATION WHERE THE STATUTORY

       THIRTY-DAY PERIOD UNDER R.C. 2945.71(B)(2) EXPIRED, THE

       PURPORTED WAIVER WAS NOT KNOWING, INTELLIGENT, OR

       VOLUNTARY, AND THE COURT APPLIED AN INDEFINITE-PENDENCY

       TOLLING RATIONALE DIRECTLY FORECLOSED BY STATE V.

       SANCHEZ.


       {¶12} Appellant argues that he did not waive his right to speedy trial, that the

waiver he signed was only in response to a specific scheduling question, that the court

Case No. 25 CO 0050
                                                                                            –6–


made no inquiry about his waiver of speedy trial, and that there is no record that he

watched a video explaining the waiver of speedy trial. He further contends that an affidavit

he filed on June 27, 2025 should be considered as a demand to enforce his right to

speedy trial. Appellant also claims that even if he signed a waiver, the delay in going to

trial constituted indefinite tolling under State v. Sanchez, 2006-Ohio-4478. He contends

that his statutory right to speedy trial pursuant to R.C. 2945.71 was denied and that the

case should be dismissed.

       {¶13} An overarching problem with the arguments contained in many of the

assignments of error in this appeal is that Appellant is raising matters for the first time on

appeal that were not raised to the trial court. Matters raised for the first time on appeal

that could have been presented to the trial court are waived. State v. Fox, 2023-Ohio-

4026, ¶ 38 (7th Dist.), citing State v. Lynn, 2011-Ohio-6404, ¶ 9. As this is a recurring

problem in this appeal, waived issues will be noted as they arise in the arguments.

       {¶14} A further problem on appeal is that Appellant has filed a non-conforming

brief, well outside of the limits set by the Rules of Appellate Procedure. The brief is set

in a small font, single spaced, and if converted to 12-point font and double-spaced would

well exceed 35 pages and 9,000 words (the word count is over 12,000). Appellant has

also notified this Court that he used generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) to create his brief.

Since Appellant is not an attorney, he cannot determine whether AI has produced viable

legal arguments. Since he has not tested most of his arguments at the trial court level,

he seeks for this Court to determine the legitimacy of his AI documents and arguments.

       {¶15} “It is well established that pro se litigants are presumed to have knowledge

of the law and legal procedures and that they are held to the same standard as litigants

who are represented by counsel.” State ex rel. Neil v. French, 2018-Ohio-2692, ¶ 10.

Case No. 25 CO 0050
                                                                                        –7–


The fact that Appellant does not necessarily understand the Rules of Appellate Procedure

or the law that is pertinent to this appeal does not excuse him. As almost every appellate

district has said: “An appellate court is not a performing bear, required to dance to each

and every tune played on an appeal.” State v. Campbell, 2012-Ohio-1738, ¶ 6 (8th Dist.).

Although we would be well within our discretion to strike Appellant’s brief, as a matter of

fairness we will attempt to review the core issues raised in each assignment of error.

          {¶16} The first raises questions involving speedy trial. The Sixth Amendment to

the United States Constitution, and Section 10, Article 1 of the Ohio Constitution,

guarantee a criminal defendant the right to a speedy trial by the state. State v. O'Brien,

34 Ohio St.3d 7, 8 (1987).        R.C. 2945.71 was enacted to statutorily protect these

constitutional rights. Id. The rights provided in R.C. 2945.71 et seq. are coextensive with

the constitutional provisions. State v. King, 70 Ohio St.3d 158, 160 (1994). A minor

misdemeanor charge must be brought to trial within 30 days unless the time is properly

tolled under the statute, or the right to speedy trial is waived. R.C. 2945.71(A).

          {¶17} Appellant filed a motion to dismiss on speedy trial grounds on August 26,

2025, and the trial court denied the motion. His motion questioned whether his waiver of

speedy trial rights was signed knowingly. An appellate court reviews a trial court's

decision on speedy trial claims for abuse of discretion. State v. Farnsworth, 2009-Ohio-

4642, ¶ 32 (7th Dist.). “Abuse of discretion means an error in judgment involving a

decision that is unreasonable based upon the record; that the appellate court merely may

have reached a different result is not enough.” State v. Dixon, 2013-Ohio-2951, ¶ 21 (7th

Dist.).

          {¶18} A criminal defendant may waive the right to speedy trial either in writing or

orally before the court. King at 160. Assuming arguendo that Appellant could show that

Case No. 25 CO 0050
                                                                                        –8–


trial occurred outside the speedy trial time set forth in R.C. 2945.71, this record contains

Appellant’s written waiver of speedy trial. “A waiver that expressly waives the accused's

right to a speedy trial under the statute without mentioning a specific time period is

unlimited in duration, and the accused is not entitled to a discharge for delay in bringing

him to trial unless the accused files a formal written objection and demand for trial.” State

v. Kuriger, 2008-Ohio-1673, ¶ 16 (7th Dist.).

       {¶19} Appellant argues that the only waiver of rights of which he is aware involved

simply marking a box on a form. Thus, the sole argument raised in his motion to dismiss

related to whether this check mark amounted to a valid waiver of rights. Contrary to

Appellant’s assertions, the waiver Appellant signed is not merely a check mark on a form.

It is a fully explained waiver of rights, printed in bold letters, signed by him and filed on

June 12, 2025. Appellant testified at the November 18, 2025 motion hearing about his

recollection as to the waiver of rights, but the trial judge rejected his contradictory

testimony and denied the motion. None of the other arguments set forth in this appeal

regarding speedy trial were raised in the trial court, and thus are waived on appeal.

       {¶20} The record also reflects that Appellant was shown a video explaining the

waiver of rights. Appellant admitted in his testimony that he did not pay attention when

the video was playing. (11/18/25 Tr., pp. 5-6.) Appellant claims there is no record of the

video being played, and yet the transcript of the motion hearing on November 18, 2025

contains the trial judge’s comments about the video, that the video fully explained the

waiver of speedy trial rights, and also contains Appellant’s own admission that he did not

pay attention to this video.

       {¶21} It is not clear what argument Appellant is trying to make regarding the

Sanchez case, cited above. The issue in Sanchez was whether the defendant was being

Case No. 25 CO 0050
                                                                                          –9–


held solely on the pending charge. More specifically, the question in that case was

whether a detainer filed by the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement nullified

the triple count provision of R.C. 2945.71(E). This is not an issue in the instant matter.

Sanchez does not discuss the topic Appellant raises and does not mention indefinite

tolling. His citation to this immaterial case may have been as a result of a “hallucination”

by Appellant’s AI queries.

       {¶22} Appellant argues that a document he filed on June 27, 2025 should have

been accepted as an official withdrawal of his waiver of speedy trial rights and a demand

for immediate trial. Although Appellant calls the document an affidavit, it is not. In this

document Appellant asserts that he did not sign a waiver of speedy trial rights and that

his “trial date” was set 92 days after the citation was filed. Appellant was actually referring

to his pre-trial date of August 26, 2025.        Regardless as to how this document is

characterized, Appellant did not argue at trial that this document amounted to his demand

for immediate trial or a revocation of his written waiver of speedy trial. Under Kuriger,

supra, in order to revoke an unlimited written waiver of speedy trial rights, a defendant

must file a formal written objection to any further continuances and must make a demand

for trial. Id. at ¶ 16, citing State v. O'Brien, 34 Ohio St.3d 7 (1987), paragraph two of the

syllabus. Appellant’s filing did neither of these things, and cannot serve as a revocation

of his waiver of speedy trial rights. Appellant did object to one specific continuance being

granted, but did not file anything that could be interpreted as a standing objection to all

further continuances (including continuances that he or the court might initiate).

       {¶23} The state also points out that, regardless, there is no speedy trial error here

because of various tolling events in the record. The state explains that there were still 13

days left on the 30-day speedy trial clock as of the date of trial. Appellant filed numerous

Case No. 25 CO 0050
                                                                                      – 10 –


motions and took other actions that tolled the speedy trial time. These included multiple

motions to dismiss, a document filed on July 18, 2025 alleging that motions requiring a

hearing had been filed and requesting a hearing, a motion to exclude evidence, and a

motion to invalidate a continuance. The time to bring a defendant to trial may be extended

for any reasonable period to allow the state to respond to such motions and to allow the

court to rule on the motions. State v. Sanchez, 2006-Ohio-4478, ¶ 27.

       {¶24} This record reveals that Appellee’s attempt to calculate the exact number

of days left on the speedy trial clock is unnecessary. Once Appellant signed a written

waiver of speedy trial rights, his waiver stopped the speedy trial clock. An unlimited

waiver applies retroactively to the date of arrest or the date the charge was filed. State

v. Mack, 2025-Ohio-4812, ¶ 97 (5th Dist.), appeal not allowed, 2026-Ohio-475.              If

Appellant had later filed a valid formal written objection to any further continuances and

a demand for trial, the court would then have been required to bring Appellant to trial in a

reasonable time, not within the statutory time limit. O'Brien at 9. As already noted,

Appellant filed neither an objection to all continuances nor a demand for immediate trial.

Furthermore, Appellant did not argue to the trial court that the trial date was unreasonable.

He argued only that he did not file a waiver of rights (which the current record shows is

incorrect), that the 30-day statutory time period expired, and that he had not caused any

delays requiring the trial date to be moved (which is also incorrect in reviewing this

record). Since he has not argued that the ultimate trial court date was unreasonable,

there can be no error on appeal.

       {¶25} Appellant's first assignment of error is overruled.




Case No. 25 CO 0050
                                                                                      – 11 –


                             ASSIGNMENT OF ERROR NO. 2


       THE TRIAL COURT ABUSED ITS DISCRETION IN GRANTING THE

       STATE’S MOTION FOR CONTINUANCE WHERE THE MOTION WAS

       FILED OUTSIDE THE SCOPE OF AUTHORIZED LEGAL INTERN

       PRACTICE UNDER GOV. BAR R. II, SEC. 7(A), IN VIOLATION OF R.C.

       4705.01, SUBSTANTIVELY DEFICIENT UNDER R.C. 2945.72(H), AND

       WHERE APPELLANT WAS READY TO PROCEED WHILE THE STATE

       WAS NOT.


       {¶26} Appellant contends that the trial court’s decision to grant a motion for

continuance to the state on October 21, 2025 was an abuse of discretion. The standard

of review of a trial court order granting or denying a continuance is abuse of discretion.

State v. Unger, 67 Ohio St.2d 65, 67 (1981). R.C. 2945.72 provides many reasons why

a trial date may be continued with no violation of a defendant’s speedy trial rights. For

example, a court may grant a continuance on its own motion or based on a motion filed

by the prosecutor. R.C. 2945.72(H). Such a continuance must be reasonable. King at

162. The state filed a motion to continue on October 20, 2025. The reason for the motion

was that the state’s sole witness was unavailable on the trial date. The court’s entry

granting the motion stated that it was being granted for good cause shown, referring to

the prosecutor’s reason for the motion.       Appellant has not revealed any abuse of

discretion occurred, here.

       {¶27} Appellant’s argument regarding whether a legal intern could file a motion

for continuance was not raised to the trial court and is waived on appeal. Even if Appellant

could raise the argument, Gov.Bar R. II(5) clearly allows an intern to represent the state

Case No. 25 CO 0050
                                                                                    – 12 –


in misdemeanor cases, and file any documents with the court, including pleadings and

motions.

      {¶28} Appellant’s second assignment of error is overruled.

                           ASSIGNMENT OF ERROR NO. 3


      THE TRIAL COURT ABUSED ITS DISCRETION IN DENYING RELIEF

      FOR THE STATE’S CONTINUING VIOLATIONS OF CRIM.R. 16 WHERE

      FOUNDATIONAL MATERIALS WERE TIMELY REQUESTED, THE

      STATE CERTIFIED DISCOVERY WAS COMPLETE, THE WRITTEN

      OPERATIONAL         POLICIES      WERE      NEVER      PRODUCED,        AND

      APPELLANT WAS MATERIALLY PREJUDICED.


      {¶29} Appellant argues that Appellee violated Crim.R. 16(B) by failing to produce

unspecified written policy manuals regarding the use of radar devices. Appellant filed a

request for discovery on June 12, 2025 that included a request for written policies or

procedures of the agency regarding radar devices. On June 27, 2025 Appellant filed a

motion to dismiss for failure of the state to provide discovery. His motion stated that

discovery had not been provided for four items: radar calibration and maintenance logs,

officer training and certification records, dashcam video footage, and any reports or

evidence intended to be used at trial. On June 30, 2025 the court issued an order setting

the motion to dismiss for hearing on August 26, 2025. At hearing, the state indicated that

discovery had been provided on the four items.

      {¶30} Appellant filed a renewed motion to dismiss for discovery violation on

October 24, 2025. In that motion, Appellant alleged the state violated Crim.R. 16(B) by

not providing him with a copy of unspecified operations manuals regarding radar devices.

Case No. 25 CO 0050
                                                                                      – 13 –


Appellant urges that the trial court should have granted either, or both, motions to dismiss

based on the state’s discovery violations.

       {¶31} Appellate courts review a trial court’s ruling regarding sanctions for

discovery violations for abuse of discretion. State v. Parson, 6 Ohio St.3d 442, 445

(1983). In addition, “prosecutorial violations of Crim.R. 16 result in reversible error only

when there is a showing that (1) the prosecution's failure to disclose was willful, (2)

disclosure of the information prior to trial would have aided the accused's defense, and

(3) the accused suffered prejudice.” State v. Jackson, 2005-Ohio-5981, ¶ 131.

       {¶32} Appellant has not identified any section of Crim.R. 16(B) that would have

required the state to produce an operations manual for an unspecified radar device. Such

a manual is not a police report, lab report, investigative report, criminal record of the

defendant, or a written or recorded statement of the defendant, all of which Appellant

requested. The state provided Appellant with the discovery items listed in his June 27,

2025 motion to dismiss.      An operations manual was not mentioned in the motion.

Appellant’s argument as to the state’s alleged failure to follow the rules for admitting

expert evidence are inapplicable, since the state did not intend to offer expert evidence.

Further, Appellant was not prejudiced by the timing of the discovery materials that were

provided, because the date of production was the day of a pre-trial motion hearing and

Appellant had two months to use the discovery material to prepare for trial. Also, there is

no evidence that the manner in which the state provided discovery was in willful violation

of Crim.R. 16, because discovery was provided by the date set by the court to review

Appellant’s discovery request.     Appellant has not shown that a discovery violation

occurred, that he was prejudiced by some discovery issue, or that there was reason for

the court to have issued any sanction, much less the sanction of dismissal. Appellant’s

Case No. 25 CO 0050
                                                                                        – 14 –


primary discovery objection was the delay in producing discovery, but because Appellant

signed a waiver of time, he cannot show any prejudice in the alleged delay.

       {¶33} Appellant’s third assignment of error is overruled.

                             ASSIGNMENT OF ERROR NO. 4


       THE CONVICTION IS AGAINST THE MANIFEST WEIGHT OF THE

       EVIDENCE AND RESTS ON LEGALLY INSUFFICIENT EVIDENCE

       WHERE THE TRIAL COURT FAILED TO PERFORM THE CASE-BY-

       CASE EVALUATION MANDATED BY CITY OF BROOK PARK V.

       RODOJEV, AND WHERE THE STATE’S OWN WITNESS CREDIBLY

       TESTIFIED THAT NO CORROBORATING RECORD OF ANY KIND

       EXISTS.


       {¶34} Appellant argues his conviction is against both the sufficiency of the

evidence and the manifest weight of the evidence. Sufficiency and manifest weight are

related, but distinct, legal concepts. “Sufficiency of the evidence is a legal question

dealing with adequacy.” State v. Pepin-McCaffrey, 2010-Ohio-617, ¶ 49 (7th Dist.), citing

State v. Thompkins, 78 Ohio St.3d 380, 386 (1997). When reviewing a conviction for

sufficiency of the evidence, an appellate court does not determine “whether the state's

evidence is to be believed, but whether, if believed, the evidence against a defendant

would support a conviction.” State v. Rucci, 2015-Ohio-1882, ¶ 14 (7th Dist.). “The

testimony of a single witness, if believed by the trier of fact, is sufficient to support a

conviction.” State v. Mock, 2010-Ohio-2747, ¶ 41 (7th Dist.).

       {¶35} Weight of the evidence concerns “the inclination of the greater amount of

credible evidence, offered in a trial, to support one side of the issue rather than the other.”

Case No. 25 CO 0050
                                                                                      – 15 –


(Emphasis deleted.) Thompkins at 387. Under a manifest weight review, the appellate

court reviews the entire record, weighs the evidence and all reasonable inferences,

considers the credibility of witnesses, and determines whether, in resolving conflicts in

the evidence the judge acting as the trier of fact in a bench trial clearly lost its way and

created such a manifest miscarriage of justice that the conviction must be reversed. State

v. Lang, 2011-Ohio-4215, ¶ 220. “[T]he weight to be given the evidence and the credibility

of the witnesses are primarily for the trier of the facts.” State v. Hunter, 2011-Ohio-6524,

¶ 118, quoting State v. DeHass, 10 Ohio St.2d 230, 227 (1967), paragraph one of the

syllabus.

       {¶36} Generally, radar and other speed-measuring devices are deemed

sufficiently reliable to forego the need for expert testimony to establish the scientific

reliability of the devices at trial. City of Brook Park v. Rodojev, 2020-Ohio-3253, syllabus.

       {¶37} The issue at trial in this case was whether Appellant was driving in excess

of 70 m.p.h. on the highway in violation of R.C. 4511.21(D)(4). The trial court heard

evidence from Sgt. Murphy that he measured Appellant’s speed at 86 m.p.h. using a BEE

IIIK radar device, that he was trained in using the device, and he had certifications

showing that he was trained. Additionally, the state produced evidence that the radar

device was properly calibrated and in working order on the day the citation was issued.

Appellant offered no evidence in rebuttal. The record clearly contains sufficient evidence

to convict Appellant of speeding and is likewise not against the manifest weight of the

evidence.

       {¶38} Appellant’s fourth assignment of error is overruled.




Case No. 25 CO 0050
                                                                                      – 16 –


                            ASSIGNMENT OF ERROR NO. 5


       THE TRIAL COURT DENIED APPELLANT DUE PROCESS BY

       DECLARING PROPERLY FILED MOTIONS NON-EXISTENT FOR

       PURPOSES        OF     HEARING       THEM     WHILE      SIMULTANEOUSLY

       CREDITING THOSE MOTIONS’ RENEWALS AS INDEFINITE TOLLING

       EVENTS.


       {¶39} This assignment of error is something of an extension of Appellant’s first

assignment of error regarding speedy trial.        Appellant believes that the trial court

contradicted itself by declaring that Appellant did not file a motion to dismiss for speedy

trial on June 27, 2025, but then treated the document that Appellant did file (captioned as

an “affidavit”) as a tolling event for speedy trial purposes.      Appellant believes this

“contradiction” constitutes reversible error.

       {¶40} Appellant filed a motion on July 18, 2025 asking the court to hold an

immediate hearing on three motions: a motion to dismiss for speedy trial violations; a

motion to dismiss for failure to provide discovery; and a motion to exclude evidence. All

outstanding motions were heard on August 26, 2025. It became clear at the hearing that

Appellant had actually filed only one motion, a motion to dismiss for discovery violations,

and that Appellant was confused about his other filings. The fact that Appellant was

confused and did not file any other actual motions did not allow the court to simply ignore

the July 18, 2025 demand for a hearing, a demand that alleged three pending motions

were outstanding.     The record, confusingly, contains information about non-existent

motions, but this is entirely Appellant’s fault and cannot support his contention as to trial

court error. Under the invited error doctrine, a party cannot use an error the party himself

Case No. 25 CO 0050
                                                                                      – 17 –


has created as a basis for establishing reversible error on appeal. State v. McKee, 2004-

Ohio-6370, ¶ 18 (7th Dist.).

       {¶41} More importantly, whether or not a document filed on June 27, 2025 was a

tolling event for speedy trial purposes is irrelevant, because as earlier discussed,

Appellant signed a written waiver of time that was not revoked. No tolling timeline

calculation needs to be conducted. His waiver of time is retroactive to the date the citation

was filed. Mack, 2025-Ohio-4812, at ¶ 97.

       {¶42} Appellant’s fifth assignment of error is overruled.

                            ASSIGNMENT OF ERROR NO. 6


       THE CUMULATIVE EFFECT OF THE FOREGOING ERRORS DEPRIVED

       APPELLANT OF A FAIR TRIAL AND A RELIABLE ADJUDICATION OF

       THE CHARGED OFFENSE, REQUIRING REVERSAL.


       {¶43} Appellant claims that cumulative error occurred at trial, and his case should

be reversed or dismissed on that basis. In an appeal where multiple trial errors are found,

but the errors individually do not rise to the level of reversible, a defendant may argue

that cumulative error has occurred. Under this doctrine, “a conviction will be reversed

where the cumulative effect of errors in a trial deprives a defendant of the constitutional

right to a fair trial even though each of numerous instances of trial court error does not

individually constitute cause for reversal. The doctrine is not applicable to the case at bar

as we do not find multiple instances of harmless error.” State v. Garner, 74 Ohio St.3d

49, 64 (1995). As no errors are found in this appeal, the doctrine of cumulative error is

patently inapplicable.

       {¶44} Appellant’s sixth assignment of error is overruled.

Case No. 25 CO 0050
                                                                                     – 18 –


                                        Conclusion

       {¶45} Appellant raises six assignments of error in appeal of a minor misdemeanor

conviction on a speeding citation. Appellant alleges there were statutory speedy trial

violations, but he signed a waiver of speedy trial that negates this argument. He objects

to a continuance of trial granted to the state, but has not shown how the continuance

amounted to an abuse of discretion. He argues a variety of issues regarding discovery.

The record shows the state provided all discovery materials it planned to use at trial in a

timely manner, and that Appellant cannot show prejudice in discovery. His arguments

regarding the sufficiency and weight of the evidence are likewise not supported by the

record. Finally, as our review shows the trial court committed no errors, cumulative error

clearly does not exist. The judgment of the trial court is affirmed.


Hanni, J. concurs.

Dickey, J. concurs.




Case No. 25 CO 0050
[Cite as State v. Davis, 2026-Ohio-2993.]




        For the reasons stated in the Opinion rendered herein, Appellant’s assignments of

error are overruled and it is the final judgment and order of this Court that the judgment

of the Columbiana County Municipal Court of Columbiana County, Ohio, is affirmed.

Costs to be taxed against the Appellant.

        A certified copy of this opinion and judgment entry shall constitute the mandate in

this case pursuant to Rule 27 of the Rules of Appellate Procedure. It is ordered that a

certified copy be sent by the clerk to the trial court to carry this judgment into execution.




                                            NOTICE TO COUNSEL

        This document constitutes a final judgment entry.
