       IN THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE

IN RE:                                            §
INTERIM POLICY ON THE USE OF                      §
GENERATIVE AI BY JUDICIAL                         §
OFFICERS AND COURT PERSONNEL                      §

                                          ORDER

      This 21st day of October 2024, it appears to the Court that:

      WHEREAS, in 2013, the Court established the Delaware Commission on

Law and Technology (“DCLT”) to provide Delaware lawyers with guidance and

education when using technology in the practice of law;

      WHEREAS, in 2023, the Court expanded the mission of the DCLT to assess

developing technology and to identify critical needs and gaps;

      WHEREAS, the DCLT has recommended adoption of the attached interim

policy for the use of Generative Artificial Intelligence (“GenAI”) by judicial

officers and court personnel;

      WHEREAS, the Interim Policy is intended to ensure the safe and appropriate

use of GenAI by judicial officers and court personnel, but not be used as a substitute

for judicial, legal, or professional expertise.

         NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS ORDERED that:

         1. Judicial officers and court personnel using GenAI in their official duties

            shall comply with the Interim Policy on the Use of Gen AI Policy by

            Judicial Officers and Court Personnel (“the Interim Policy”), attached
   as Exhibit A.

2. The Interim Policy shall be added as Appendix O-1 to the

   Judicial    Branch      Operating      Procedures,      available   at

   https://courts.delaware.gov/aoc/operating-procedures/index.aspx.

3. The DCLT shall monitor the Interim Policy and report to the Court

   when further changes are needed.

4. The Interim Policy shall go into effect on October 21, 2024.


                              BY THE COURT:


                               /s/ Collins J. Seitz, Jr.
                                    Chief Justice
EXHIBIT A
          Interim Policy on the Use of GenAI by Judicial Officers and Court Personnel
Purpose:
This Interim Policy on the Use of GenAI by Judicial Officers and Court Personnel (this “Interim
Policy”), reviewed and approved by the Delaware Commission on Law and Technology, is
offered for consideration by the Chief Justice of the Delaware Supreme Court as the
Administrative Head of all Delaware Courts. This Interim Policy is intended to ensure the safe
and appropriate use of GenAI by Authorized Users. Generative AI tools are intended to provide
assistance and are not a substitute for judicial, legal or other professional expertise.
Scope:
This Interim Policy applies to the use of GenAI by Authorized Users in the course and scope of
their official duties and on State Technology Resources.
Definitions:
“Approved GenAI” means GenAI tools that have been approved by the Administrative Office for
use by Authorized Users in the performance of their duties and using State Technology
Resources.
“Artificial Intelligence” or “AI” means technology that enables computers and machines to
reason, learn, and act in a way that would typically require human intelligence.
“Authorized Users” means all judicial branch judicial officers, employees, law clerks, interns,
externs, and volunteers.
“Generative AI” or “GenAI” means Artificial Intelligence trained on an existing set of data
(which can include text, images, audio or video) with the intent to "generate" new data objects
when prompted by a user. Generative AI creates new data objects contextually in response to
user prompts based only on the data it has already been trained on.
“Non-Public Information” means information to which an Authorized User has access to as a
result of their official position and not otherwise publicly available through action of the
Authorized User.
“Non-Approved GenAI” means GenAI that is not Approved GenAI.
“State Technology Resources” include any and all computer systems, software, network systems,
telecommunications equipment and systems, email and messaging systems, data storage,
hardware, peripherals and other electronic systems and devices owned, leased, and/or provided
by the State of Delaware.
Policy:
   1. Authorized User Remains Responsible. Any use of GenAI output is ultimately the
      responsibility of the Authorized User. Authorized Users are responsible to ensure the
      accuracy of all work product and must use caution when relying on the output of GenAI.
2. Informed Use. Authorized Users should not use Approved GenAI without a working
   knowledge and understanding of the tools. Authorized Users should be trained in the
   technical capabilities and limitations of Approved GenAI prior to use.

3. Decision Making. Authorized Users may not delegate their decision-making function to
   Approved GenAI.

4. Compliance with Laws and Judicial Branch Policies. Use of GenAI must comply with
   all applicable laws and judicial branch policies.

5. Non-Approved GenAI. Authorized Users may not input any Non-Public Information
   into Non-Approved GenAI. Non-Approved GenAI may not be used on State Technology
   Resources.




                                          2
