IN THE COURT OF APPEALS OF IOWA
                _______________

                     No. 25-1029
               Filed September 2, 2026
                _______________

In re the Marriage of Caroline Fitzgerald Monson and
                Robert Dean Monson
                Upon the Petition of
            Caroline Fitzgerald Monson,
               Petitioner–Appellant,

                 And Concerning
               Robert Dean Monson,
               Respondent–Appellee.
               _______________

 Appeal from the Iowa District Court for Polk County,
    The Honorable Michael D. Huppert, Judge.
               _______________

                   AFFIRMED
                _______________

 Caroline Monson, Grimes, self-represented appellant.

Karmen R. Anderson, Des Moines, attorney for appellee.
              _______________

          Considered without oral argument
     by Tabor, C.J., and Badding and Langholz, JJ.
               Opinion by Langholz, J.



                           1
LANGHOLZ, Judge.

       After many months of contentious litigation, Caroline Monson appeals
the decree dissolving her marriage with Robert Monson for a third time.
Among other claims, she challenges the district court’s decision to place the
parties’ two minor children in Robert’s sole legal custody and physical care.
And she attempts to challenge the decree’s financial provisions.

       On our de novo review, we affirm. Giving appropriate deference to the
district court’s factual findings—especially considering the parties’ high
degree of conflict and difficulty in communicating—we agree that it is in the
children’s best interests to be placed in Robert’s sole legal custody and
physical care. We find nothing inequitable in the decree’s financial
provisions. And after considering Caroline’s other claims of error that we can
discern from her briefing, we find none properly before us in this appeal that
have merit or warrant further discussion.

I.    Background Facts and Proceedings

      Caroline and Robert most recently married in May 2014. They were
married to each other and divorced twice before, with their second marriage
ending in 2007. They have three adult biological children—two sons and one
daughter—from their prior marriages. During this marriage, they adopted
two minor daughters—born in 2009 and 2017—through the foster care
system.

       As the district court aptly observed, it “is clear that this marriage [was]
plagued by discord and animosity for several years.” The parties’ relationship
appears to have reached a breaking point again in the spring of 2024. That
April, Caroline petitioned for a temporary protective order against Robert
after she alleged that he shoved her during an argument while the family was



                                        2
on vacation in the Dominican Republic.1 The court entered a protective order
by consent agreement of the parties the next month. 2 That order gave
Caroline exclusive possession of the family home and custody of the parties’
youngest daughter, with limited visitation for Robert.3

       While the protective-order case was pending, the parties’ two adult
sons filed to have Caroline involuntarily committed for what they alleged to
be a serious mental impairment. Although she was involuntarily hospitalized
for one day—and the protective-order hearing was postponed because of the
hospitalization—the involuntary-commitment case was ultimately
dismissed.

       Caroline also petitioned to dissolve the marriage around this time. The
parties’ three adult children provided sworn affidavits in support of Robert’s
request for physical care of the two minor daughters for a May 2024 hearing
on temporary matters. The court’s temporary-matters order awarded the
parties joint legal custody of the two minor daughters and placed them in
Robert’s physical care, with visitation for Caroline. That order also awarded
Robert temporary possession of the family home and suspended Caroline’s
child-support obligation.

        At the time of the March 2025 dissolution trial, Caroline was about to
start a new job as a leasing specialist for a property company, where she would
earn a salary of $20,000 per year with “unlimited opportunities for


       1
        Robert disputed Caroline’s account of this incident in his dissolution-trial
testimony.
       2
         With the agreement of both parties, the district court took judicial notice of the
adjudicative facts from the protective-order case at the dissolution trial.
       3
           The parties’ older minor daughter was not living in the family home at that time.



                                              3
commission.” She believed that her earning capacity was $25,000 per year.4
Robert was employed as a firefighter captain. The parties filed a joint pretrial
stipulation stating that he earned $108,167 per year. Both parties sought sole
legal custody and physical care of their two minor daughters.

      The district court entered its thorough decree dissolving the parties’
marriage in May 2025. After carefully considering the evidence—including
the sharply conflicting testimony of the parties and their adult children—the
court awarded sole legal custody and physical care of the two minor
daughters to Robert, with liberal visitation for Caroline.

       As for the marital assets and debts, the district court awarded the
marital home with all of the indebtedness against the home to Robert. It
ordered that Robert’s pension should be divided proportionately between the
parties based on the formula set forth in In re Marriage of Benson, 545
N.W.2d 252, 255 (Iowa 1996). And it ordered that Caroline should be
responsible for debts from a Veridian credit card, a GreenState judgment, and
her own student loans, while Robert should be responsible for debts from a
Lowe’s credit card, a Nebraska Furniture Mart credit card, a Capital One
credit card, a Preferred Credit loan, a Clear Lake Bank & Trust loan, and his
own student loans including parent PLUS loans for the parties’ adult
daughter.

      The court also ordered Robert to pay transitional spousal support to
Caroline in the amount of $1,500 per month for twelve months. And it

       4
        Caroline described herself as “a stay-at-home mom” during this marriage, but
her Social Security statement showed that she earned wages every year since 2014. She
worked part-time as a flight attendant from November 2021 to 2024. Before that, she
worked for an insurance company. She also obtained a bachelor’s degree in psychology
and held a real estate license during this marriage.



                                         4
ordered Caroline to pay child support to Robert in the amount of $464.87 per
month for both minor children, then reduced to $327.12 per month when
there is only one minor child to support.

      After unsuccessfully asking the district court to amend or enlarge the
decree under Iowa Rule of Civil Procedure 1.904, Caroline now appeals.

II.   Custody and Physical Care

       Caroline first challenges the district court’s placement of the parties’
two minor daughters in Robert’s sole legal custody and physical care. We
review custody and physical care decisions de novo. See In re Marriage of
Hansen, 733 N.W.2d 683, 690 (Iowa 2007). “De novo review means we
review the entire record and decide anew the issues properly preserved for
appellate review.” Hora v. Hora, 5 N.W.3d 635, 645 (Iowa 2024) (cleaned up).
But we do not “decide the case in a vacuum or approach it as though the trial
court had never been involved.” Id. (cleaned up). Instead, we give the district
court’s fact findings “weight and defer especially where the credibility of
witnesses is a factor in the outcome.” Id. (cleaned up). This is “pragmatic
because the district court has a front-row seat to the live testimony, viewing
the demeanor of both the witness as she testifies and the parties while they
listen, whereas our review is limited to reading black words on a white page
of a sterile transcript.” Id. And this advantage “greatly help[s]” the district
court “in making a wise decision about the parties” and their children.
In re Marriage of Vrban, 359 N.W.2d 420, 423 (Iowa 1984) (cleaned up).

       Our overriding consideration is the best interests of the children—not
the “perceived fairness to the spouses.” Hansen, 733 N.W.2d at 695. The
factors in Iowa Code section 598.41(3) (2024) and those identified by our
supreme court in In re Marriage of Winter, 223 N.W.2d 165, 166–67
(Iowa 1974) guide us in discerning the children’s best interests. And our goal


                                      5
“is to place the children in the environment most likely to bring them to
health, both physically and mentally, and to social maturity.” Hansen, 733
N.W.2d at 695.

       Caroline’s arguments on appeal focus on the district court’s finding
that she did not show there was a “history of domestic abuse” weighing
against an award of sole legal custody and physical care to Robert. See Iowa
Code § 598.41(1)(b) (“[I]f the court finds that a history of domestic abuse
exists, a rebuttable presumption against the awarding of joint custody
exists.”); id. § 598.41(2)(c) (“A finding by the court that a history of domestic
abuse exists, as specified in subsection 3, paragraph ‘j’, which is not rebutted,
shall outweigh consideration of any other factor specified in subsection 3 in
the determination of the awarding of custody under this subsection.”);
Hines-Miller v. Teter, 35 N.W.3d 321, 331 (Iowa 2026) (“Even though the
rebuttable presumption in Iowa Code section 598.41(1)(b) does not apply to
physical care determinations, . . . the factors listed in that statute—including
whether there is a history of domestic abuse—are relevant in determining
which physical care arrangement is best for the child.”); see also Iowa Code
§ 236.2(2) (defining “domestic abuse”).

       Caroline and her adult children made many allegations of abuse by
Robert in their trial and deposition testimony. Caroline now renews those
allegations. But as the district court found, Caroline’s “claims of persistent
abuse at the hands of [Robert], often expressed in the presence of the [minor]
children, have not been corroborated and appear to have only become an
issue as the present case proceeded through the courts.” 5 The court also


       5
        After the entry of the protective order, and while this dissolution case was
pending, Caroline reported many allegations of abuse by Robert to local law enforcement.
A police detective investigated the allegations, and the Polk County Attorney’s Office


                                           6
discredited the testimony of the parties’ adult children on this issue because
“all three adult children . . . admitted to playing fast and loose with the truth
in their prior affidavits which favored [Robert] in the temporary matters
hearing,” and in the court’s view, their “testimony appear[ed] to be nothing
more than an extension of [Caroline’s] campaign to malign [Robert] in a
manner that is uncorroborated by any current circumstance.”

       On our de novo review of the record—and giving appropriate
deference to the district court’s credibility determinations—we agree with
the district court that the evidence did not show there was a “history of
domestic abuse” weighing against an award of sole legal custody and physical
care to Robert. See Iowa Code § 598.41(3)(j); In re Marriage of Forbes, 570
N.W.2d 757, 759–60 (Iowa 1997) (explaining that in deciding whether there is
a “history of domestic abuse” under section 598.41, it “is for the court to
weigh the evidence of domestic abuse, its nature, severity, repetition, and to
whom directed, not just to be a counter of numbers”).

      We also agree with the district court that awarding Robert sole legal
custody and physical care of the children serves the children’s best interests.
As the court observed, “it is clear that the level of toxicity that has been
generated between the parties prevents them from operating as coparents of
the children.” See In re Marriage of Gensley, 777 N.W.2d 705, 715 (Iowa Ct.
App. 2009) (“The overriding factor weighing against joint legal custody is
the parties’ utter inability to communicate with each other, which is a result
of their toxic relationship.”); Hansen, 733 N.W.2d at 698 (“[A] stormy
marriage and divorce presents a significant risk factor that must be
considered in determining whether joint physical care is in the best interest

declined to file any criminal charges. The detective’s investigation report was admitted as
an exhibit at the dissolution trial.



                                            7
of the children.”). And both parties sought sole legal custody and physical
care at trial. So the key question before the court, as the court acknowledged,
was not whether one parent should serve as the children’s sole legal
custodian and physical caretaker “but who should serve in that capacity.”

       After carefully considering and weighing all the evidence—including
the parties’ sharply conflicting testimony—the court concluded that Robert
“is the better candidate to provide for the children’s physical needs, along
with being their sole legal custodian.” In reaching this conclusion, the court
found that “[w]hatever the patterns of parenting may have looked like when
the children were younger, in more recent years [Caroline] has shown a
troublesome tendency to needlessly escalate the tensions between the
parties, which has affected the well-being of the children.” The court also
found that “[w]hile both parties have been critical of the other over the years,
the record supports the conclusion that [Robert] is in a position to provide a
more stable environment in which to raise the children and to provide
appropriate support for the children’s ongoing relationship with [Caroline].”

       The court considered all the appropriate factors in making an award of
sole legal custody and physical care. 6 See Iowa Code § 598.41(3); Winter,
223 N.W.2d at 166–67; Hansen, 733 N.W.2d at 696–700. Again, we defer to
that court’s credibility determinations. And we conclude that its factual
       6
          In her appellate brief, Caroline lists two of the “legal issues presented” as
“[w]hether the court failed to make the specific findings required by Iowa Code
§ 598.41(5) regarding the children’s best interests” and “[w]hether the district court erred
in awarding physical care to [Robert] despite undisputed evidence that [Caroline] was the
children’s primary caregiver throughout the marriage, contrary to . . . the best-interests
factors in Iowa Code § 598.41(3).” But she does not adequately advance any argument on
these issues, so we decline to consider them further. See In re J.H., No. 25-2099, 2026
WL 519684, at *2 (Iowa Ct. App. Feb. 25, 2026) (reiterating that “sprinkled mentions of
an issue are insufficient to raise legal claims for our consideration” (cleaned up)).



                                             8
findings concerning the children’s best interests are supported by the record.
We thus affirm the district court’s placement of the parties’ two minor
daughters in Robert’s sole legal custody and physical care.

III.   Property Division and Support

      Caroline also attempts to challenge the decree’s financial provisions.
We also review these provisions de novo. See Hansen, 733 N.W.2d at 690.

       Property Division. In a dissolution decree, the “court shall divide all
property, except inherited property or gifts received or expected by one party,
equitably between the parties.” Iowa Code § 598.21(5). “The legislature’s
choice of the word ‘all’ creates an expansive marital pot.” In re Marriage of
Miller, 966 N.W.2d 630, 635 (Iowa 2021). This pot subject to division also
includes the marital debts. See In re Marriage of Sullins, 715 N.W.2d 242, 251
(Iowa 2006) (“Debts of the parties normally become debts of the marriage,
for which either party may be required to assume the responsibility to pay.”).
And so, the court must decide on an equitable division of the marital assets
and debts “in light of the particular circumstances of the parties” and
considering the factors in Iowa Code section 598.21(5). Id. at 247 (cleaned
up). While equity “does not require an equal division,” our supreme court
has “repeatedly insisted upon the equal or nearly equal division” because
“[e]quality is . . . often most equitable.” In re Marriage of McDermott, 827
N.W.2d 671, 682 (Iowa 2013) (cleaned up).

       The district court’s division of the parties’ marital assets and debts
resulted in a net distribution of $34,109 to Caroline and $15,243 to Robert.
The court explained that “[w]hile the net distribution to each party is not
exactly equal, it is equitable taking into account all of the circumstances,
especially [Caroline’s] current inability to make an equalization payment that
would otherwise balance the scales.” Further, the court reasoned that while


                                      9
Robert “is receiving less in net assets, he is receiving the major asset (the
marital home) which should continue to appreciate in value. As a result, no
equalization payment will be ordered.”

       Caroline attempts to challenge the court’s assignment of the Clear
Lake loan, the Preferred Credit loan, and the parent PLUS loans for the
parties’ adult daughter to Robert as marital debts in calculating the net
property distribution. She also claims that the court’s decision to give no
weight to an exhibit purportedly showing that she owed over $155,000 in
student loans “result[ed] in clear error and understatement of [Caroline’s]
verified debt” and that the court “failed to enforce” a provision of the
parties’ prior dissolution decree which “established joint liability for student
loans and ordered each [party] to pay one-half.” Caroline thus requests that
we “[r]eallocate the Clear Lake loan and other post-separation consumer
debts to [Robert]; credit [Caroline’s] verified student-loan balances
consistent with marital purpose and the prior decree; and adjust the division
to reflect equitable contributions under § 598.21(5).”

       Besides mentioning the property-division statute, Caroline cites no
legal authority in support of these arguments, so she has arguably waived
these challenges. See Iowa R. App. P. 6.903(2)(a)(8)(3) (“Failure to cite
authority in support of an issue may be deemed waiver of that issue.”). But
in any event, we cannot say that the district court’s division of the marital
assets and debts is inequitable to Caroline—indeed, it favors her. Nor does
Caroline specify which additional assets should be assigned to her if we were
to adjust the property division to “reflect equal contribution and debt
allocation.” And we cannot engage in advocacy on Caroline’s behalf in
attempting to fashion the relief she seeks. See Ronnfeldt v. Shelby Cnty. Chris
A. Myrtue Mem’l Hosp., 984 N.W.2d 418, 421 (Iowa 2023) (“We generally will



                                      10
not do a party’s work for them, particularly if that requires us to assume a
partisan role and undertake the party’s research and advocacy.” (cleaned
up)); Hyler v. Garner, 548 N.W.2d 864, 876 (Iowa 1996). Thus, we do not
disturb the district court’s property division.

       Spousal and Child Support. Caroline also attempts to challenge the
district court’s transitional-spousal-support award and her child-support
obligation. But she has failed to adequately present her “contentions and the
reasons for them with citations to the authorities relied on and references to
the pertinent parts of the record” in her briefing. Iowa R. App.
P. 6.903(2)(a)(8)(3). So we find these issues waived. See id.

IV.    A Final Concern

       We now turn to a final concern. During our review of Caroline’s
appellate briefing, we discovered that she repeatedly cited an Iowa case that
does not exist. And she cited other cases and statutes that do exist but do not
stand for the propositions for which she cited them. It thus appears likely that
she misused an artificial intelligence tool when preparing her briefs.

        We recognize that Caroline is representing herself. “But we do not
have a double standard for those represented by counsel and those who are
unrepresented—we expect all to follow our procedures.” Locher & Davis,
PLC v. Ruth F. Woller Revocable Tr., No. 23-0944, 2024 WL 4761531, at *4
(Iowa Ct. App. Nov. 13, 2024). And we have repeatedly “stress[ed] that self-
represented litigants and attorneys alike have a duty to independently verify
the authenticity and veracity of all sources and assertions when relying on
artificial intelligence tools to prepare trial or appellate court filings.” Luke v.
Iowa Dep’t of Health & Hum. Servs., 29 N.W.3d 635, 636 (Iowa Ct.
App. 2025); see also Nisland Asset Inv., LLC v. Gericke, No. 25-0659, 2026
WL 1162553, at *1 (Iowa Ct. App. Apr. 29, 2026); In re W.G., No. 25-1916,


                                        11
2026 WL 892837, at *2–3 (Iowa Ct. App. Apr. 1, 2026); Goma v. Hundley,
No. 25-0619, 2026 WL 892643, at *8 (Iowa Ct. App. Apr. 1, 2026); In re R.A.,
24-1629, 2025 WL 2793560, at *2–4 (Iowa Ct. App. Oct. 1, 2025). Submitting
inaccurate appellate filings wastes party and judicial resources, hinders the
filer’s ability to successfully advocate, and ultimately slows down the process
of resolving the appeal.

      That said, we have considered all Caroline’s other claims of error that
we can discern from her briefing. And we find none properly before us in this
appeal that have merit or warrant further discussion. We thus deny her
pending motion to expedite this opinion as moot and affirm the district
court’s dissolution decree.

      AFFIRMED.




                                      12
