NOTICE: All slip opinions and orders are subject to formal
revision and are superseded by the advance sheets and bound
volumes of the Official Reports. If you find a typographical
error or other formal error, please notify the Reporter of
Decisions, Supreme Judicial Court, John Adams Courthouse, 1
Pemberton Square, Suite 2500, Boston, MA, 02108-1750; (617) 557-
1030; SJCReporter@sjc.state.ma.us

SJC-13850

                COMMONWEALTH   vs.   JAVAINE WATSON.



            Suffolk.    April 8, 2026. - July 9, 2026.

   Present:   Budd, C.J., Gaziano, Kafker, Wendlandt, Georges,
                     Dewar, & Wolohojian, JJ.


Homicide. Cellular Telephone. Evidence, Scientific test,
     Identification, Presumptions and burden of proof.
     Practice, Criminal, Postconviction relief, Presumptions and
     burden of proof. Evidence, Relevancy and materiality.
     Practice, Criminal, Discovery. Statute, Construction.
     Identification. Words, "Evidence."



     Indictment found and returned in the Superior Court
Department on March 14, 2014.

     Following review by this court, 487 Mass. 156 (2021),
postconviction motions for scientific or forensic analysis,
filed on May 1 and December 4, 2023, were heard by Michael J.
Pineault, J.

     A request for leave to appeal was allowed by Kafker, J., in
the Supreme Judicial Court for the county of Suffolk.


     Darcy Jordan, Assistant District Attorney (Ian Polumbaum,
Assistant District Attorney, also present) for the Commonwealth.
     Merritt Schnipper for the defendant.
     M. Chris Fabricant, of New York, Claudia Leis Bolgen, Kevin
S. Prussia, James M. Lyons, Kerry G. Matlack, Radha Natarajan,
Katharine Naples-Mitchell, & Suma V. Nair, for Massachusetts
                                                                    2


Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers & others, amici curiae,
submitted a brief.


    WENDLANDT, J.   General Laws c. 278A, inserted by St. 2012,

c. 38, "An Act providing access to forensic and scientific

analysis" (act), establishes a process, "separate from the trial

and any subsequent proceedings challenging an underlying

conviction, that permits forensic and scientific analysis of

evidence or biological material, the results of which could

support a motion for a new trial."   Commonwealth v. Clark, 472

Mass. 120, 121-122 (2015).   Because the Legislature intended "to

remedy the injustice of wrongful convictions," Commonwealth v.

Wade, 467 Mass. 496, 504 (2014) (Wade II), S.C., 475 Mass. 54

(2016) (Wade III), the act makes "postconviction forensic

testing easier and faster than it had been for defendants who

sought such testing in conjunction with motions for new trials

pursuant to Mass. R. Crim. P. 30, as appearing in 435 Mass. 1501

(2001)," Commonwealth v. Moffat, 478 Mass. 292, 301 (2017).

Accordingly, discovery under the act is governed by the

requirements set forth therein rather than by the standards for

a motion for a new trial under rule 30.

    The Commonwealth contends that the defendant, Javine

Watson, was not entitled to discovery under the act because it

narrowly permits scientific testing of "physical" evidence for

biological material and the defendant requested digital forensic
                                                                     3


analysis of a codefendant's cell phones.   We disagree.   Although

enacted "in the wake of a national recognition that

[deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)] testing has an unparalleled

ability both to exonerate the wrongly convicted and to identify

the guilty" (quotation and citation omitted), Wade II, 467 Mass.

at 497, the act is not limited to scientific testing for

biological material.   Instead, the act broadly permits a party

to seek "forensic or scientific analysis" of "evidence or

biological material," G. L. c. 278A, §§ 3, 7; the act defines

"analysis" as a "process by which a forensic or scientific

technique is applied to evidence or biological material."     G. L.

c. 278A, § 1.

    Consistent with this broad, remedial mandate, we have

recognized that the act permits postconviction testing of

biological material for DNA evidence, as well as other forensic

testing of clothing, shell casings, and ballistics for evidence

other than DNA.   See, e.g., Commonwealth v. Jenks, 487 Mass.

1032, 1034-1036 (2021) (reversing denial of G. L. c. 278A motion

for testing of ballistics evidence for weights and diameters of

projectiles, land and grove impressions, and rifling system

direction); Commonwealth v. Williams, 481 Mass. 799, 803, 809

(2019) (reversing denial of G. L. c. 278A motion "requesting

that clothing recovered from the victim be tested for traces of

gunshot residue and that shell casings recovered at the crime
                                                                     4


scene be tested for fingerprints"); Wade II, 467 Mass. at 497,

515 (reversing denial of G. L. c. 278A motion for DNA testing of

seminal fluid).

     Concluding that the act permits digital forensic analysis

of a cell phone, and further concluding that the Superior Court

judge did not err in determining that the defendant showed by a

preponderance of the evidence that a reasonably effective

attorney would have sought the requested discovery and that the

anticipated analysis has the potential to unearth evidence that

is material to the defendant's identification as the perpetrator

of the crime in the underlying case, we affirm the judge's

allowance of the defendant's G. L. c. 278A motions.1

     1.   Background.   We present the relevant factual background

from the trial record, reserving certain details for later

discussion.2




     1 We acknowledge the amicus brief submitted by the
Massachusetts Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, the New
England Innocence Project, the Criminal Justice Institute at
Harvard Law School, the Innocence Project, the Innocence
Network, and the Boston Bar Association.

     2 The defendant was tried jointly alongside three
codefendants -- Omar Bonner, Omar Denton, and Andrew Robertson.
The evidence presented at trial is summarized in more detail in
our decisions affirming the convictions of murder in the first
degree for the defendant, Bonner, and Robertson. See
Commonwealth v. Bonner, 489 Mass. 268, 269-275 (2022);
Commonwealth v. Robertson, 489 Mass. 226, 227-229, cert. denied,
143 S. Ct. 498 (2022); Commonwealth v. Watson, 487 Mass. 156,
157-161 (2021).
                                                                    5


     In December 2013, the victim, Romeo McCubbin, was shot and

killed while sitting in his car after attending an event at a

nearby nightclub.    The murder was captured by a surveillance

camera mounted to the exterior of a residence near the

nightclub; the surveillance video footage, in conjunction with

photographs from the nightclub event, placed the defendant's

codefendants -- Omar Bonner, Andrew Robertson, and Omar Denton

–- at the scene of the crime.

     The footage showed a man, inferably Robertson, firing a

handgun about ten times into the front driver's side window of

the victim's car before fleeing the scene in a getaway vehicle

-- a red Lincoln MKX, which the prosecution asserted the

defendant was driving.3   The victim subsequently climbed over to

the passenger's side seat and rolled out of the passenger door

onto the sidewalk.

     Roughly forty seconds after the first shooting, a second

person, inferably Denton, walked toward the victim and shot him

four times.   A third person, inferably Bonner, accompanied

Denton and kicked the victim before leaving the scene.

     About an hour after the murder, police officers discovered

the Lincoln, unoccupied and with the engine running, near where

two of the codefendants were arrested.    Inside were keys to the


     3 The video footage did not reveal the face of the driver of
the Lincoln.
                                                                   6


defendant's own car and to the back door of his home and a cell

phone with a number ending in 6426 (6426 number), which was

registered to the defendant's stepmother but used by the

defendant.   Fingerprint analysis revealed the presence of the

defendant's and his codefendants' fingerprints throughout the

Lincoln.   The defendant's fingerprints were found on the

vehicle's gearshift, outside driver's side door handle, inside

driver's side door handle, and front and rear passenger's side

doors.

     Digital forensic analysis of the defendant's 6426 number

showed the codefendants' contact information and numerous

communications between the defendant's cell phone and the

codefendants' cell phones in the month preceding the murder,

including multiple calls on the days before and on the night of

the shooting.   Listed in the defendant's cell phone was the

contact information for a phone number ending in 8764 (8764

number), which was registered to Robertson's former girlfriend.4

     Digital forensic analysis of the 8764 number revealed that

in the month preceding the murder, the 8764 number had 203

contacts with the defendant's 6426 number and 312 contacts with

the cell phone of a key witness –- Nadira Amoroso; the




     4 Robertson's former girlfriend testified at trial that she
canceled service for the 8764 number in December 2013, the same
month as the murder, at Robertson's request.
                                                                   7


prosecution relied on Amoroso's testimony to show the

defendant's participation in the planning of the murder.

     Specifically, Amoroso testified that she had been dating

the defendant at the time of the murder; that, prior to the

murder, the defendant had asked to borrow the Lincoln, which she

had rented; that she had seen the defendant at the nightclub

near the site of the shooting on the night of the murder;5 that

the morning after the murder, the defendant told her that he had

abandoned the vehicle in an unknown driveway, fearing that he

was being followed; and that during her relationship with the

defendant she contacted him on both the 6426 number and the 8764

number registered to Robertson's former girlfriend.   At trial,

defense counsel maintained that Amoroso was in a relationship

with Robertson and that her testimony, including her assertion

that she had loaned the Lincoln to the defendant, was fabricated

to protect Robertson.   To support this theory, counsel focused

on Amoroso's assertion that during her relationship with the

defendant she contacted him on the 8764 number registered to

Robertson's former girlfriend; specifically, counsel highlighted




     5 At trial, Amoroso testified that she did not remember
seeing the defendant at the nightclub near the scene of the
murder and had mistakenly told the grand jury that she had
witnessed him there; however, her grand jury testimony was
admitted substantively at trial. See Commonwealth v. Daye, 393
Mass. 55, 73 (1984), overruled in part on other grounds by
Commonwealth v. Cong Duc Le, 444 Mass. 431, 435-439 (2005).
                                                                      8


that digital forensic analysis of the 8764 and 6426 numbers

revealed that in the month preceding the murder, there were

approximately 312 contacts between Amoroso's cell phone and the

8764 number registered to Robertson's former girlfriend, but

only one contact between Amoroso's cell phone and the

defendant's 6426 number.

    When confronted with this extensive call history with the

8764 number, Amoroso dismissed counsel's suggestion that she was

speaking with Robertson rather than the defendant, testifying

that she did not know Robertson at all and could not identify

him in the court room.     In closing, the prosecution also

combatted the defendant's theory that the 8764 number belonged

to Robertson, suggesting that the defendant and Robertson may

have been "changing up" their cell phones and highlighting

Amoroso's testimony, including her assertion that she contacted

the defendant on the 8764 number and that the defendant had two

cell phones.   The jury convicted the defendant of murder in the

first degree on theories of deliberate premeditation and extreme

atrocity or cruelty.     The defendant moved for judgment

notwithstanding the verdict on the grounds that "Amoroso

perjured herself and that the government was well aware of

that," as she "had no relationship with [the defendant]

whatsoever."   The trial judge denied the motion.    In April 2021,
                                                                   9


we affirmed the defendant's conviction.6   See Commonwealth v.

Watson, 487 Mass. 156, 170 (2021).

     2.   G. L. c. 278A motions.   In May 2023, the defendant

filed a motion pursuant to G. L. c. 278A, § 3, for forensic

analysis of three cell phones that police officers had seized

from Robertson following an unrelated incident in February 2014,

approximately two months after the victim's shooting.    The

defendant had sought access to these same cell phones pretrial,

but his motions were denied,7 and the defendant did not appeal

from the trial judge's rulings.

     In December 2023, the defendant filed a second motion

pursuant to G. L. c. 278A, § 3, seeking forensic analysis of two

additional cell phones that police officers had seized from

Robertson in connection with another unrelated crime, which

occurred in July 2013, approximately five months before the


     6 The jury also convicted the defendant of being an
accessory after the fact, which we vacated on direct appeal.
Watson, 487 Mass. at 170.

     7 In his pretrial motions, the defendant argued that the
records from Robertson's three cell phones could reveal
contacts, calls, and text messages showing that Amoroso and
Robertson were in a relationship, arguably refuting Amoroso's
grand jury testimony that she was in a relationship with the
defendant and bolstering his defense that Amoroso provided false
testimony about the defendant's involvement in the planning of
the shooting in an attempt to protect Robertson. After a
nonevidentiary hearing, the trial judge denied the defendant's
motions on the grounds that the cell phones were seized during
an unrelated investigation with no nexus to the victim's
killing.
                                                                    10


victim's shooting.   Trial counsel had not sought access to these

two additional cell phones even though he knew that they were

available prior to trial.   As the defendant had done in

connection with his pretrial motions for access to Robertson's

cell phones, see note 7, supra, the defendant asserted in his

c. 278A motions that digital forensic analysis of the now five

cell phones could yield evidence that Amoroso committed perjury

to protect Robertson, who the defendant alleged was her

boyfriend at the time of the murder.8

     In April 2024, the motion judge, who was not the trial

judge, concluded that the defendant had met the threshold

showing required under G. L. c. 278A, § 3 (b), and scheduled an

evidentiary hearing to determine whether the defendant's request

also satisfied the requirements of G. L. c. 278A, § 7.     In its

opposition, the Commonwealth argued that the phrase "forensic or




     8 In support of his argument that the requested analysis was
reasonably likely to produce evidence that Amoroso provided
false testimony about contacting the defendant on the 8764
number registered to Robertson's former girlfriend, the
defendant noted that in the month preceding the murder, the 8764
number not only had 312 contacts with Amoroso's number and 203
contacts with the defendant's 6426 number, but also 73, 276, and
224 respective contacts with three numbers belonging to women
known to have dated Robertson. The defendant argued that, "[a]s
a simple matter of physics," it would have been impossible for
him to use the 8764 number to contact Amoroso roughly ten times
per day during the month preceding the murder while Robertson
also used it to communicate with his three girlfriends nearly
twenty times per day and with the defendant six times per day
over the same period.
                                                                   11


scientific analysis," as used in the act, means the application

of "natural and physical sciences" to (1) "evidence in the case

that has already been tested" but should be retested "due to

advancements in scientific testing," or (2) "already collected

evidence that reasonably contains material suitable for

[scientific] testing."   The Commonwealth contended that the

defendant's motions did not involve forensic analysis as "no

scientific principles" needed to "be applied to obtain the [cell

phones] or their records, or to identify, interpret, evaluate,

or understand the contents of those records."   The Commonwealth

also contended that the defendant's request did not involve

"evidence" within the meaning of the act, as the defendant was

not seeking analysis of previously tested or already collected

evidence, but rather was seeking "the production of tangible

items ([cell phones]), and the production of documentary

evidence associated with those tangible items ([cell phone]

records)" (emphases in original); put differently, the

Commonwealth argued that the defendant was "asking for a means

to collect –- not analyze or test –- data from the phones."

    At the evidentiary hearing, the sole witness was the

defendant's digital forensics expert.   The expert testified that

digital forensic analysis of a cell phone is a multistep process

involving proper seizure of the physical device, overcoming

password protection to decrypt cell phone content, and
                                                                  12


extracting and memorializing data from the device and any media

storage devices.   The expert focused on digital forensic

techniques that can access password-protected cell phones

through "brute force" methodology and that can extract a wide

array of digital content, including user-deleted content, call

logs, text message logs, global positioning system (GPS)

coordinates, and encrypted data from user applications.     The

expert noted that errors in the application of the forensic

techniques can cause loss of data; he testified that an analyst

should try to extract data from the cell phone as soon as the

device is powered on, as a device can start overwriting older

data once it is active.

    Following the expert's testimony, in its posthearing

memorandum, the Commonwealth conceded that "digital forensic

analysis ([the defendant's expert's] field) is a type of

forensic science" and that "digital forensics involves

scientific expertise."    Nonetheless, relying on Commonwealth v.

Cronin, 495 Mass. 170, 178-181 (2025), the Commonwealth argued

that the cell phone data extraction sought by the defendant

"falls outside the 'forensic analysis' contemplated by c. 278A"

because an extraction report "can be generated by a layperson

with basic training and read by anyone."

    In May 2025, the judge allowed the defendant's motions for

forensic analysis of the five cell phones, concluding, inter
                                                                   13


alia, that digital forensics falls within the scope of

"analysis" as defined in G. L. c. 278A, § 1, and that the

defendant had otherwise satisfied the requirements of G. L.

c. 278A, §§ 3 and 7.   The Commonwealth appealed,9 and in November

2025, a single justice of this court allowed the Commonwealth's

petition under the gatekeeper provision of G. L. c. 278, § 33E.

    3.   Discussion.   a.   Standards of review.   "We review a

question of statutory interpretation de novo."     Wade III, 475

Mass. at 60.   Because the motion judge was not the trial judge,

we also review de novo his rulings that the defendant satisfied

G. L. c. 278A, §§ 3 and 7, to the extent that the rulings were

based purely on the documentary record, see Wade II, 467 Mass.

at 506; we defer to the judge's findings of fact based on the

defendant's expert's testimony unless they are clearly

erroneous, see Commonwealth v. Cadet, 473 Mass. 173, 179 (2015)

("A reviewing court accepts the motion judge's findings of fact,

made after an evidentiary hearing, if they are supported by the

record, and defers to the judge's assessments of credibility

. . ." [citation omitted]).




    9  Robertson opposed the defendant's G. L. c. 278A motions,
arguing, inter alia, that the defendant was not entitled to
analyze the five seized cell phones because he still had a
privacy interest in them. The motion judge rejected Robertson's
arguments. Robertson did not appeal from the judge's order or
otherwise participate in the present appeal.
                                                                  14


     b.   Scope of permissible "analysis."   On appeal, the

Commonwealth does not press precisely the same arguments it

marshalled before the motion judge.   Instead, it principally

contends that the term "analysis" as used in the act is limited

to "laboratory testing" of what it describes as "physical

evidence," which it further asserts is limited to "tangible

evidence capable of being handled, preserved, consumed,

degraded, or destroyed" during testing.   At oral argument, the

Commonwealth further clarified its position, contending that

G. L. c. 278A is limited to "physical, tangible evidence that's

capable of being tested for biological material," such as a

"bloody sock" onto which a biological specimen has been

deposited.10




     10"Ordinarily, the failure to raise a legal argument at the
trial level results in its waiver." Luppold v. Hanlon, 495
Mass. 148, 165-166 (2025). However, because here the
Commonwealth's principal argument on appeal is essentially an
extension of its earlier assertions that the sought discovery
does not fall within the act, as it does not involve application
of "natural and physical sciences" to "analyze or test" the
sought evidence, and because the issue presented is purely a
legal one of statutory construction, we reach the merits. See
Commonwealth v. Powell, 468 Mass. 272, 275 n.5 (2014) ("The
Commonwealth's over-all challenge to the . . . rule is
essentially an extension of its assertion that the . . . rule is
limited in scope. . . . We therefore do not consider the
argument waived"). Cf. LaChance v. Commonwealth, 437 Mass.
1013, 1014 (2002) (declining to reach issues raised for first
time on appeal where record was "lacking . . . in providing a
basis for their intelligent resolution" [citation omitted]).
                                                                    15


    Consideration of the Commonwealth's arguments requires us

to determine whether digital forensic analysis of a cell phone

involves "analysis" as defined under the act.     "[A] statute must

be interpreted according to the intent of the Legislature

ascertained from all its words construed by the ordinary and

approved usage of the language, considered in connection with

the cause of its enactment, the mischief or imperfection to be

remedied and the main object to be accomplished" (citation

omitted).   Matter of the Estate of Mason, 493 Mass. 148, 151

(2023).   We begin "our analysis . . . with the principal source

of insight into legislative intent –- the plain language of the

statute."   Gravito v. Commonwealth, 496 Mass. 756, 759 (2025),

quoting Patel v. 7-Eleven, Inc., 489 Mass. 356, 362 (2022),

S.C., 494 Mass. 562 (2024).    "If the statutory language is clear

and unambiguous, it is conclusive as to legislative intent"

(quotation omitted).     Gravito, supra, quoting Patel, supra.

    In construing the plain language, "we must strive to give

effect to each word . . . so that no part will be inoperative or

superfluous" (citation omitted).    Commonwealth v. Fleury, 489

Mass. 421, 427 (2022).    And "[i]f the words used are not

otherwise defined . . . , we afford them their plain and

ordinary meaning."     Matter of E.C., 479 Mass. 113, 118 (2018).

    Here, the Legislature defined the term "analysis" as "the

process by which a forensic or scientific technique is applied
                                                                     16


to evidence or biological material to identify the perpetrator

of a crime."    G. L. c. 278A, § 1.   The Legislature did not

define the terms "forensic or scientific technique" or

"evidence."    Accordingly, we turn to consider whether digital

forensic analysis of a cell phone involves application of a

"forensic or scientific technique" to "evidence," applying the

terms' plain and ordinary meanings consistent with legislative

intent.

     i.    Forensic or scientific technique.     We need not dwell

long on the question whether digital extraction of data on the

sought cell phones, as described by the defendant's expert,

involves the application of a "forensic or scientific technique"

because the Commonwealth conceded that "digital forensic

analysis" of the type contemplated by the defendant's expert is

a type of "forensic science" involving "scientific expertise."

The Commonwealth presses the argument that, despite its

concession, our decision in Cronin, 495 Mass. at 178-181,

compels a contrary conclusion.    We disagree.

     In Cronin, 495 Mass. at 178-179, we concluded that a lay

witness, such as a police officer trained in the proper use of a

digital forensics tool, can testify to the steps he or she

personally performed to obtain an extraction report using the

tool.     We did not consider the act, much less the question

whether cell phone extraction involves application of forensic
                                                                     17


or scientific techniques.     Indeed, we cautioned that such a lay

witness could not attest to the tool's reliability and accuracy.

Id. at 180.     This is because such testimony requires expertise

about the underlying forensic and scientific techniques embedded

in the tool that permit retrieval of digital data from the cell

phone.    Id.   Our careful delineation between a lay witness

trained to use the tool, on the one hand, and an expert in

digital forensics with specialized knowledge as to the

reliability and accuracy of the forensic and scientific

techniques in the tool, on the other hand, does not support the

Commonwealth's claim.     Accordingly, we conclude, consistent with

the defendant's expert's testimony, that digital extraction of

cell phone data involves application of a forensic or scientific

technique.11

     ii.    Evidence.   We next consider the Commonwealth's

principal argument on appeal -- that the requested digital


     11To the extent the Commonwealth contends that forensic or
scientific techniques are limited to "laboratory testing," the
claim is entirely undeveloped and does not rise to the level of
appellate argument. See Mass. R. A. P. 16 (a) (9) (A), as
appearing in 481 Mass. 1628 (2019). Further, limiting the act's
permissible "forensic or scientific technique[s]" to those that
occur in a "laboratory," a term undefined by the Commonwealth,
finds no basis in the words of the act or the act's broad
remedial purposes. See Commonwealth v. Ramos, 490 Mass. 818,
824 (2022) ("As a broad interpretation of c. 278A aligns with
the remedial nature of the statute, we generally have construed
the language of [the act] . . . in a manner that is generous to
the moving party" [quotation, citation, and alteration
omitted]).
                                                                    18


forensic analysis does not involve "evidence" as that term is

used in the act.   The Legislature did not define the term

"evidence," and thus we are guided by its plain and ordinary

meaning.   See Matter of E.C., 479 Mass. at 118.    Specifically,

evidence ordinarily includes objects "that tend[] to prove or

disprove the existence of an alleged fact."12    Black's Law

Dictionary 696 (12th ed. 2024).   See Black's Law Dictionary 635

(9th ed. 2009) (same); Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary

565 (12th ed. 2026) (defining evidence as "something [as

testimony, a writing, or an object] submitted at a judicial or

administrative proceeding for the purpose of proving a party's

case"); American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language 616

(5th ed. 2018) (defining evidence as "[a] thing or set of things

helpful in forming a conclusion or judgment").

     The sought cell phones and their digital contents, which

include, inter alia, call logs, text message logs, location

information, and information from cell phone applications, fall

comfortably within the scope of "evidence."     See, e.g.,

Commonwealth v. Carleton, 497 Mass. 11, 27-28 (2026)

(considering as evidence photographs retrieved using digital




     12Notably, the act does not apply to all evidence; the
"evidence" must be of a type as to which a forensic or
scientific technique may be applied. See G. L. c. 278A, § 1.
The sought discovery must also meet the other requirements of
the act. See, e.g., G. L. c. 278A, §§ 3, 7.
                                                                 19


forensic software that "locate[d] the code necessary to unlock

the cell phone" and then "read the files extracted from the cell

phone"); Cronin, 495 Mass. at 175 ("Commonwealth . . . entered

in evidence fifteen images that [a police officer] had extracted

from the defendant's cell phone" using digital forensics tool

[emphasis added]); Commonwealth v. Woollam, 478 Mass. 493, 498-

499 (2017), cert. denied, 584 U.S. 944 (2018) (upholding

admissibility of evidence, including "cell phone records, . . .

records of call metadata, text messages, and a summary chart"

[footnote omitted]).   In fact, the Commonwealth introduced cell

phones and cell phone data extraction reports as evidence in

connection with the defendant's underlying conviction.

     The Commonwealth's argument that the "structure" of G. L.

c. 278A "presupposes" that "evidence" consists of "tangible

evidence capable of being handled, preserved, consumed,

degraded, or destroyed" by testing and thus (according to the

Commonwealth13) does not encompass a cell phone or its digital


     13It is not apparent that the Commonwealth's assertions are
grounded in any scientific principles. The defendant's expert
testified that digital forensics involves "handling" the
physical, tangible cell phones, as well as any attached
physical, tangible media storage devices, like subscriber
identity module (SIM) cards and secure digital (SD) cards, and
"preserving" the content that is extracted from those physical,
tangible devices. The expert also testified that preservation
of the data required proper application of techniques and that
improper handling of the physical devices could result in
overwriting, modification, or destruction of data. The
Commonwealth leaves unexplained the scientific basis for its
                                                                 20


contents, as well as its further contention that "evidence" is

limited to items containing biological specimens, ignores that

the act uses the term "evidence" without the additional features

fashioned to it by the Commonwealth.    See Wade III, 475 Mass. at

63 ("We do not read into the [act] a provision which the

Legislature did not see fit to put there, nor add words that the

Legislature had the option to, but chose not to include"

[citation omitted]).

    Nor does the Commonwealth's construction of "evidence" find

support in G. L. c. 278A, § 8.   Section 8 sets forth the

standards for conducting analysis of "evidence or biological

material," including protocols for, inter alia, protecting the

integrity of the tested item, using accredited forensic services

providers, and preserving the tested item for replicate

analysis, where possible.   None of these standards demonstrates

that the defendant's requested digital forensic analysis falls

outside the act's permitted analysis.   Indeed, G. L. c. 278A,

§ 8, like the other sections of the act, uses the term



position that DNA extracted from a physical item, such as a
bloody sock, is any more "physical" than the data extracted from
a cell phone. Cf. 1 M.R. Arkfeld, Electronic Discovery and
Evidence § 2.5(F) (2025) (listing types of data stored on cell
phones and external media storage devices, including call logs,
pictures, and GPS location data); Withers, Electronically Stored
Information: The December 2006 Amendments to the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure, 4 Nw. J. Tech. & Intell. Prop. 171, 174
(2006) ("electronically stored information is replicated on
media in various physical locations").
                                                                      21


"evidence" without affixing the limitations posited by the

Commonwealth.

    To the extent the Commonwealth's position is that the act

is limited to testing for DNA or similar biological evidence, we

disagree.   The act contemplates the application of forensic or

scientific techniques to "evidence or biological material"

(emphasis added).    G. L. c. 278A, § 1.   The disjunctive "or"

indicates that "evidence" is not "biological material," which

the act separately defines as "a sexual assault forensic

examination kit, semen, blood, saliva, hair, skin tissue or

other identified biological substance."     Id.   See Wade III, 475

Mass. at 61 ("The word 'or' is given a disjunctive meaning

unless the context and the main purpose of all the words demand

otherwise" [citation omitted]).   Reading "evidence" as limited

to items that can be tested for biological specimens would

render the defined term "biological material" largely

superfluous.    See Fleury, 489 Mass. at 427.     It would also run

counter to our decisions allowing postconviction testing of

other types of nonbiological material.     See, e.g., Jenks, 487

Mass. at 1034-1036 (testing of ballistics evidence for weight,

dimensions, and rifling system direction); Williams, 481 Mass.

at 803, 809 (testing of gunshot residue on clothing and

fingerprints on shell cases).
                                                                    22


     The Commonwealth's reliance on the act's legislative

history is misplaced.    To begin, ordinarily where "the words of

the statute are unambiguous, we need not consult its legislative

history."     Garcia v. Steele, 492 Mass. 322, 328 n.7 (2023).   The

Legislature deliberately chose to permit forensic analysis of

"evidence or biological material."    G. L. c. 278A. §§ 3, 7.

     Notably, the Commonwealth was the forty-ninth State to

enact legislation allowing for postconviction testing.     See Wade

II, 467 Mass. at 509 & n.15.    In determining to permit

postconviction analysis using forensic or scientific techniques

applied to "evidence" or "biological materials," the Legislature

chose to enact a broader remedial scheme rather than adopt the

more limited enactments from other States, which expressly

limited postconviction discovery to DNA testing of biological

material.14    See id. at 509 (noting that Massachusetts, as forty-

ninth State to enact postconviction testing law, "set[] a far




     14See, e.g., Cal. Penal Code § 1405(a) ("A person who was
convicted of a felony and is currently serving a term of
imprisonment may make a written motion . . . for performance of
forensic [DNA] testing"); Colo. Rev. Stat. § 18-1-412(1) ("An
eligible person may apply at any time to the district court in
the district where the conviction was secured for DNA testing
concerning the conviction and sentence"); N.C. Gen. Stat. § 15A-
269(a) ("A defendant may make a motion before the trial court
that entered the judgment of conviction against the defendant
for performance of DNA testing . . .").
                                                                     23


lower bar for access to scientific testing than that required by

similar statutes in other States").

     The Commonwealth posits that if digital forensic analysis

of cell phones is permitted by the act, "every few weeks, [a]

defendant would meet the requirements of G. L. c. 278A and the

cell phones could arguably be re-extracted in perpetuity"

because digital forensic technologies may be updated

periodically.    The concern is overstated.   As we have concluded

previously, to re-analyze evidence using an updated forensic or

scientific technique, the moving party must show "a material

improvement over any previously conducted analysis in accurately

identifying or excluding the [moving] party as the perpetrator

of the crime."   Commonwealth v. Donald, 468 Mass. 37, 44 (2014),

S.C., 487 Mass. 1036 (2021).    The moving party seeking to re-

analyze the same evidence must also satisfy all the other

requirements of G. L. c. 278A.15   See id. at 47-48 (affirming




     15For example, a party seeking digital forensic analysis
must show, as discussed infra, that the requested analysis has
the potential to result in evidence that is material to the
moving party's identification as the perpetrator of the crime in
the underlying case. G. L. c. 278A, § 7 (b) (4). See, e.g.,
Moffat, 478 Mass. at 300-301 (G. L. c. 278A motion for DNA
testing of four cigarette butts found on public road in vicinity
of crime scene properly denied where testing did not have
potential to reveal evidence material to identifying perpetrator
of crime given there was nothing to indicate when cigarette
butts might have been deposited and no witness mentioned
cigarette smoking).
                                                                  24


denial of G. L. c. 278A motion where defendant could show

requested re-analysis using new method offered "material

improvement," but failed to satisfy G. L. c. 278A, § 3 [b] [5]).

     c.   Allowance of motion.   i.   Reasonably effective counsel.

The Commonwealth next maintains that the defendant is not

entitled to the requested analysis because he did not satisfy

G. L. c. 278A, § 7 (b) (3), which required that the defendant

show by a preponderance of the evidence "that the evidence or

biological material [the defendant seeks to analyze] has not

been subjected to the requested analysis for any of the reasons"

enumerated in G. L. c. 278A, § 3 (b) (5).16    The motion judge


     16The five reasons enumerated in G. L. c. 278A,
§ 3 (b) (5), for not having previously conducted the requested
analysis are as follows:

     "(i) the requested analysis had not yet been developed at
     the time of the conviction;

     "(ii) the results of the requested analysis were not
     admissible in the courts of the commonwealth at the time of
     the conviction;

     "(iii) the moving party and the moving party's attorney
     were not aware of and did not have reason to be aware of
     the existence of the evidence or biological material at the
     time of the underlying case and conviction;

     "(iv) the moving party's attorney in the underlying case
     was aware at the time of the conviction of the existence of
     the evidence or biological material, the results of the
     requested analysis were admissible as evidence in courts of
     the commonwealth, a reasonably effective attorney would
     have sought the analysis and either the moving party's
     attorney failed to seek the analysis or the judge denied
     the request; or
                                                                  25


determined that the defendant had satisfied G. L. c. 278A,

§ 3 (b) (5) (iv),17 because a "reasonably effective attorney

would have sought the analysis" of Robertson's five cell phones,

trial counsel "failed to seek the analysis" for two of the cell

phones, and trial counsel did seek the now-requested analysis

for three of the cell phones, but "the judge denied the

request."   G. L. c. 278A, § 3 (b) (5) (iv).

     The Commonwealth does not contest the motion judge's

findings, which are amply supported by the record.   The

defendant's principal defense at trial was that Amoroso, who

provided key testimony linking the defendant to planning the

shooting, provided false testimony against the defendant to

protect Robertson, with whom she was in a relationship.

Examining the five cell phones, which were known to belong to

Robertson in the months immediately before and immediately after

the murder, to uncover information connecting Amoroso and

Robertson and thus potentially undermine Amoroso's testimony

that she did not know (or even recognize) Robertson, falls




     "(v) the evidence or biological material was otherwise
     unavailable at the time of the conviction."

     17The motion judge also found that the defendant satisfied
G. L. c. 278A, § 3 (b) (5) (i). Because a defendant need only
show that the requested analysis was not previously performed
because of one of the five enumerated reasons set forth
in 3 (b) (5), we need not review the judge's conclusion as to
that prong. See Wade III, 475 Mass. at 61.
                                                                  26


squarely within a strategy that a reasonably effective trial

counsel would have employed.   See Wade II, 467 Mass. at 511

(G. L. c. 278A, § 3 [b] [5] [iv], does not "import[] the

standard of ineffective assistance of counsel"; defendant need

only show that "'a' reasonably effective attorney would have

sought the requested analysis, not that every reasonably

effective attorney would have done so" [emphases in original]).

See also Commonwealth v. Ramos, 490 Mass. 818, 828 (2022) ("a

reasonably effective attorney would have requested the DNA

testing in light of the fact that it potentially could

corroborate the testimony of the lone defense witness and

contradict the Commonwealth's argument").

    Instead, the Commonwealth argues that the motion judge

erred because G. L. c. 278A, § 3 (b) (5) (iv), should be read to

apply only when the defendant's earlier motion for the same

analysis was denied on the grounds that the results were

inadmissible in the courts of the Commonwealth at the time.      The

argument confuses G. L. c. 278A, § 3 (b) (5) (iv), with G. L.

c. 278A, § 3 (b) (5) (ii), which expressly provides as an

independent basis for relief that "the results of the requested

analysis were not admissible in the courts of the commonwealth

at the time of the conviction."   We are not at liberty to add

this limitation, which is absent from prong (iv) and which would

render superfluous the separate basis for relief under prong
                                                                    27


(ii).     See Tze-kit Mui v. Massachusetts Port Auth., 478 Mass.

710, 712 (2018) ("ordinarily we will not add language to a

statute where the Legislature itself has not done so").     See

also A. Scalia & B.A. Garner, Reading Law:     The Interpretation

of Legal Texts 174 (2012) ("If possible, every word and every

provision is to be given effect . . . .     None should be ignored.

None should needlessly be given an interpretation that causes it

to duplicate another provision or to have no consequence").18

     ii.    Analysis material to identification.   The Commonwealth

further maintains that the motion judge erred in concluding that

the defendant satisfied G. L. c. 278A, § 7 (b) (4), which

required the defendant to show by a preponderance of the

evidence that the requested forensic analysis "has the potential

to result in evidence that is material to the [defendant's]

identification as the perpetrator of the crime in the underlying

case."    Evidence is "material" within the meaning of G. L.

c. 278A, § 7 (b) (4), when it "is of significance to the moving

party's identification as the perpetrator of the crime"; this

includes evidence that "would tend to support" the defendant's




     18The Commonwealth's additional argument that the defendant
waived his right to analyze the five cell phones pursuant to
G. L. c. 278A because he failed to appeal from the denial of his
pretrial motion for access to three of the cell phones is
contrary to the express language of the act. See G. L. c. 278A,
§ 15 ("The right to file a motion under this chapter shall not
be waived").
                                                                   28


theory of defense and "challenge the Commonwealth's account of

the sequence of events."   Ramos, 490 Mass. at 825, 827-828.

    Here, records show hundreds of calls between the 8764

number -- the cell phone number registered to Robertson's former

girlfriend, which Robertson had canceled following the murder

and which plausibly was being used by Robertson -- and at least

three women with whom Robertson had a relationship.   Trial

counsel relied on these records to mount the defendant's

principal defense –- that Amoroso, the only witness to testify

that the defendant knowingly participated in an advanced plan to

kill the victim by borrowing the Lincoln, fabricated her

testimony to protect Robertson.   The requested discovery, which

may reveal contacts between Robertson and Amoroso on his other

cell phones in the months preceding and following the murder,

thus has the potential to uncover communications between

Robertson and Amoroso, see Clark, 472 Mass. at 135-136

("Legislature's use of the word 'potential' in § 7 [b] [4]

suggests an awareness of the fact that the requested forensic

analysis may not produce the desired evidence, but such a

consequence should not be an impediment to analysis in the first

instance"), and those potential communications would bolster the

defendant's defense by showing that Amoroso committed perjury in

stating that she did not know Robertson and could not identify

him; evidence of her perjury would in turn cast doubt on her
                                                                   29


testimony as a whole –- testimony the prosecution relied on in

advancing its theory that the defendant was an active

participant in the planning of the murder.   Indeed, in closing,

the prosecution emphasized Amoroso's testimony to argue that the

defendant was "the driver of that [Lincoln] MKX," including her

assertion that she contacted the defendant on the 8764 number,

that the defendant had two cell phones, and that he borrowed the

Lincoln from her prior to the murder.

    Thus, contrary to the Commonwealth's contentions, the

requested analysis would not provide "mere" impeachment

evidence.   Evidence that Amoroso and the defendant did not in

fact have numerous telephone calls together would "challenge the

Commonwealth's account of the sequence of events" -- namely,

that the defendant was a full participant in the advanced

planning of the murder, including by asking Amoroso if he could

borrow the Lincoln, which the Commonwealth alleged the defendant

used to bring Robertson to the location of the shooting and then

assist Robertson in fleeing the scene.   Ramos, 490 Mass. at 828.

See Watson, 487 Mass. at 162 ("For murder in the first degree

both under the theory of deliberate premeditation and under the

theory of extreme atrocity or cruelty, to prove the defendant

guilty as a joint venturer, the Commonwealth had to prove beyond

a reasonable doubt that the defendant knowingly participated in

the commission of the crime charged, and that the defendant had
                                                                   30


or shared the required criminal intent" [quotations and citation

omitted; emphasis added]).

    The Commonwealth claims that the discovery of

communications between Amoroso and Robertson would not be

"material" to identifying the defendant as required by the act

because other evidence implicated him in the joint venture –-

specifically, the presence of his fingerprints and personal

belongings in the Lincoln, and the call logs showing numerous

contacts between him and his codefendants in the month leading

up to the murder and on the night of the murder.    That other

evidence may pose a challenge for the defendant to successfully

move for a new trial, see Commonwealth v. Gaines, 494 Mass. 525,

539 (2024), but it does not govern his ability to access

discovery under the act, which was intended to "provide

increased and expeditious access to scientific or forensic

testing," "the results of which subsequently might support a

motion for a new trial," Wade II, 467 Mass. at 505, 509.     See

Ramos, 490 Mass. at 824 ("we have emphasized that defendants

need not demonstrate that the requested testing could result in

evidence that would justify a new trial"); Commonwealth v.

Linton, 483 Mass. 227, 242 (2019) ("The requirements of G. L.

c. 278A are, by design, less stringent than a motion for a new

trial pursuant to Mass. R. Crim. P. 30").   See also Commonwealth

v. Steadman, 489 Mass. 372, 389 (2022) ("moving party need only
                                                                    31


show that the required analysis could be material to the

question of . . . identity, and not whether it would have had

any effect on the underlying conviction" [emphases in original;

quotations and citation omitted]); Clark, 472 Mass. at 136

(evidence may be material under act even in "the presence of

overwhelming evidence of guilt in the underlying trial"

[citation omitted]).19

     4.   Conclusion.    For the foregoing reasons, we affirm the

allowance of the defendant's motions for postconviction forensic

analysis under G. L. c. 278A.

                                     So ordered.




     19Construing the act to permit the discovery requested here
does not impermissibly "allow[] the defendant to bypass the
limits of [Mass. R. Crim. P. 30]," as the Commonwealth contends.
"In enacting G. L. c. 278A, the Legislature separated the
procedure for seeking forensic testing from the procedure for
seeking scientific testing in conjunction with a motion for a
new trial pursuant to Mass. R. Crim. P. 30 (b), and intended
that G. L. c. 278A provide increased and expeditious access to
scientific or forensic testing" (emphases added). Wade II, 467
Mass. at 509. Should the sought discovery prove fruitful, the
defendant will need to meet the requirements of rule 30 to
obtain a new trial.
