                                                                       Digitally signed by
                                                                       Reporter of
                                                                       Decisions
                                                                       Reason: I attest to
                      Illinois Official Reports                        the accuracy and
                                                                       integrity of this
                                                                       document
                              Appellate Court                          Date: 2025.11.21
                                                                       10:59:36 -06'00'



                  In re Baby Boy, 2025 IL App (4th) 241427



Appellate Court   In re BABY BOY and A.H., Minors (The People of the State of
Caption           Illinois, Petitioner-Appellee, v. Lerin H., Respondent-Appellant).



District & No.    Fourth District
                  Nos. 4-24-1427, 4-24-1430 cons.



Filed             July 21, 2025



Decision Under    Appeal from the Circuit Court of Sangamon County, Nos. 22-JA-121,
Review            23-JA-122; the Hon. Karen S. Tharp, Judge, presiding.



Judgment          Affirmed.


Counsel on        William T. Panichi, of Springfield, for appellant.
Appeal
                  John C. Milhiser, State’s Attorney, of Springfield (Patrick Delfino,
                  Thomas D. Arado, and Laura Bialon, of State’s Attorneys Appellate
                  Prosecutor’s Office, of counsel), for the People.



Panel             JUSTICE ZENOFF delivered the judgment of the court, with opinion.
                  Justices Lannerd and Knecht concurred in the judgment and opinion.
                                               OPINION

¶1       Respondent, Lerin H., appeals from the trial court’s order terminating her parental rights
     as to her minor children, Baby Boy, also known as E.H. (born in 2023), and A.H. (born in
     2022). On appeal, respondent contends (1) the court’s unfitness finding was against the
     manifest weight of the evidence, (2) the court’s best-interest finding was against the manifest
     weight of the evidence, (3) her due process rights were violated when the court denied her
     motion to represent herself, (4) the State failed to provide reasonable accommodations for
     respondent to complete required services during her incarceration, and (5) respondent was
     provided ineffective assistance of counsel. For the reasons articulated below, we affirm.
¶2       Additionally, unrelated to the merits of the termination of respondent’s parental rights, this
     court issued a rule to show cause against respondent’s attorney, William T. Panichi, as to why
     he should not be sanctioned for citing eight nonexistent cases in the briefs he filed on behalf
     of respondent. For the reasons articulated below, we find that Mr. Panichi violated Illinois
     Supreme Court Rule 375 (eff. Feb. 1, 1994) and order that (1) Mr. Panichi disgorge the
     payment of $6,925.62 he received for his work on this appeal, (2) Mr. Panichi pay $1,000 as
     monetary sanctions to the clerk of the Fourth District Appellate Court, and (3) the clerk of the
     Fourth District Appellate Court send a copy of this opinion to the Illinois Attorney Registration
     and Disciplinary Commission.

¶3                                         I. BACKGROUND
¶4                                        A. Underlying Action
¶5       Respondent gave birth to A.H. in March 2022. On May 23, 2022, the State filed a petition
     alleging that A.H. was a neglected minor because (1) he was “not receiving the proper care
     and supervision necessary for his wellbeing in that mother failed to make a proper care plan
     for the minor’s supervision” (see 705 ILCS 405/2-3(1)(a) (West 2022)) and (2) his
     environment was injurious to his welfare, “as evidenced by mother’s mental instability” (see
     705 ILCS 405/2-3(1)(b) (West 2022)).
¶6       The trial court held an adjudicatory hearing on October 20 and November 17, 2022. The
     court then held a dispositional hearing in December 2022. On January 25, 2023, the court found
     that it was in A.H.’s best interest to be placed in the custody and guardianship of the Illinois
     Department of Children and Family Services (DCFS) and made A.H. a ward of the court.
     Respondent appealed to this court, arguing that the court’s neglect finding was against the
     manifest weight of the evidence. This court affirmed. In re A.H., 2023 IL App (4th) 230131-
     U, ¶ 33.
¶7       We reiterate the salient facts here as relevant to this termination of parental rights appeal.
     In October 2022, respondent was arrested on federal charges of cyberstalking her previous
     caseworker. She was incarcerated at the time of the adjudicatory and dispositional hearings in
     connection with A.H.’s case. At the adjudicatory hearing on November 17, 2022, respondent
     requested to proceed pro se. Respondent began interrupting the trial court and her attorney,
     Selena Young, attempting to state that she was not a threat to herself or anyone else. The court
     tried to explain to respondent that she was not testifying at that time and that there was a process
     that the proceedings must follow. As respondent continued to interrupt, the court stated, “Based
     upon the communications I’ve just had with the respondent mother here in court, it seems to


                                                  -2-
       me that she is not comprehending what is going on in court nor the direction and structure of
       court adequately to represent her[self].” Thereafter, respondent continually interrupted the
       court and her own attorney until the court directed jail personnel to return respondent to the
       holding cell so the hearing could proceed.
¶8         In May 2023, while respondent’s first appeal was pending and she was incarcerated, she
       gave birth to E.H. On June 1, 2023, the State filed a petition alleging that E.H. was a neglected
       minor in that (1) E.H. “is not receiving the proper care and supervision necessary for his
       well-being in that Mother failed to make a proper care plan for the minor’s supervision” (see
       705 ILCS 405/2-3(1)(a) (West 2022)), (2) E.H.’s “environment is injurious to his welfare as
       evidenced by Mother’s mental instability” (see 705 ILCS 405/2-3(1)(b) (West 2022)), and
       (3) E.H.’s “environment is injurious to his welfare as evidenced by the minor’s sibling being
       adjudicated neglected and Mother’s failure to make reasonable progress towards having the
       minor’s sibling returned to her care” (see 705 ILCS 405/2-3(1)(b) (West 2022)). On August 3,
       2023, the trial court held a shelter care hearing in connection with E.H.’s case and determined
       there was probable cause to believe E.H. was neglected. The court granted DCFS temporary
       custody and guardianship of E.H. The court appointed Young to represent respondent over
       respondent’s objection.
¶9         The trial court began the adjudicatory hearing in connection with E.H.’s case on August
       24, 2023, and then continued it to a later date. At the hearing, respondent was represented by
       Sean Liles. The court entered an order on October 5, 2023, and determined that E.H. was
       neglected based on respondent’s failure to make a proper care plan, “mental instability/health
       issues,” and failure to make reasonable progress in the juvenile case as to A.H. The court noted,
       “mother had no plan for where child would go after birth, mother was in [federal] custody at
       the time, [previous] adjudication re mother’s mental health, other child not returned to
       mother’s care.”
¶ 10       In November 2023, respondent was convicted of cyberstalking.
¶ 11       The trial court entered an order on November 1, 2023, finding that it was in E.H.’s best
       interest that he be made a ward of the court, respondent was unfit and unable to care for E.H.,
       and reasonable efforts and appropriate services aimed at family preservation had been
       unsuccessful in rectifying the conditions leading to the finding of unfitness or inability. The
       order states: “mother in federal custody awaiting sentencing; mother must cooperate with
       recommended services including mental health treatment and parenting.”
¶ 12       The trial court held two permanency hearings as to A.H. between May and August 2023
       and four as to both A.H. and E.H. between December 2023 and August 2024. The court ordered
       custody and guardianship of the minors to remain with DCFS each time.
¶ 13       The State filed motions for termination of parental rights on May 7, 2024, as to A.H., and
       July 10, 2024, as to E.H. The petitions alleged that respondent (1) failed to maintain a
       reasonable degree of interest, concern, or responsibility as to the minors’ welfare (750 ILCS
       50/1(D)(b) (West 2024)), (2) failed to make reasonable efforts to correct the conditions that
       were the basis for the removal of the minors from her custody within nine months following
       the adjudication of neglect (750 ILCS 50/1(D)(m)(i) (West 2024)), and (3) failed to make
       reasonable progress toward the return of the minors to her during any nine-month period
       following the adjudication of neglect (750 ILCS 50/1(D)(m)(ii) (West 2024)). The nine-month
       periods alleged by the State as to A.H. were (1) November 17, 2022, to August 17, 2023, and
       (2) August 7, 2023, to May 7, 2024. The nine-month period as to E.H. was October 5, 2023,

                                                   -3-
       to July 5, 2024.

¶ 14                                         1. Fitness Hearing
¶ 15        The trial court held the fitness hearing on October 17, 2024. At the beginning of the
       hearing, respondent’s counsel, Liles, indicated that he sent a video writ to the federal prison in
       Waseca, Minnesota, and followed up to request that respondent attend the proceedings by
       video, but the prison ultimately told him it was only possible for respondent to appear
       telephonically, which she did. The evidence presented, as relevant to this appeal, is as follows.
¶ 16        Laura Kuehnel was a caseworker with Family Service Center (FSC) assigned to A.H.’s and
       E.H.’s cases as of October 2022. Kuehnel testified that A.H. came into care in May 2022 due
       to mental health concerns with respondent, and E.H. came into care when he was born in May
       2023 because of those same concerns and because A.H. was already in care. At the time E.H.
       came into care, respondent was incarcerated in federal prison for cyberstalking her previous
       caseworker. At this point in the hearing, respondent began interrupting the testimony, and the
       trial court attempted to explain to respondent that her attorney was going to object and cross-
       examine the witness on her behalf. The court informed respondent that it would mute her if
       she continued interrupting. Returning to the testimony, Kuehnel stated that as of July 2022,
       respondent was required to engage in mental health services, substance abuse services, drug
       testing, and parenting classes. However, respondent had been terminated from Parent Place,
       Family Guidance Center, and FSC due to her verbal aggression.
¶ 17        Kuehnel testified that respondent’s visitation was suspended in September 2022 due to
       threats respondent made against her previous caseworker. As of September 2022, respondent
       had not signed any consent forms or releases of information, as required under her service plan.
       Respondent was arrested on federal charges in October 2022. While respondent was in custody
       in Sangamon County, Kuehnel facilitated two visits with A.H. in December 2022. Kuehnel
       facilitated two additional visits in February 2023, after respondent was transferred to the
       Macon County jail, but there was a plastic screen between respondent and A.H. at that facility,
       which made visitation difficult for both of them, and they both just cried. Respondent requested
       not to have visits at that point and chose to talk to A.H. only by phone. Kuehnel testified that
       contacting respondent while she was in jail was difficult but was made easier when Corporal
       Gatts was assigned to respondent’s case as a point of contact in April 2023.
¶ 18        Kuehnel testified that Gatts was able to facilitate a child and family team meeting in May
       2023. Kuehnel mailed the integrated assessment and service plan to respondent prior to the
       May 2023 meeting, but respondent mailed the documents back to her with additional writing,
       “stating that we were trying to take her children away, we were kidnapping her children, that
       she was not signing her rights away,” and “a bunch of writings regarding the same things over
       and over pretty much.” Kuehnel testified that she discussed the service plan with respondent
       during the May 2023 meeting. Respondent stated that “she was just there because she had to
       be there,” then refused to speak, and once Kuehnel brought up signing the releases of
       information, respondent “became verbally aggressive and ended the call.” On the State’s
       motion, the trial court admitted respondent’s integrated assessment and service plans into
       evidence.
¶ 19        Kuehnel testified that because respondent had not signed any releases, she could not get
       any information about respondent’s progress in completing her services. The only information
       Kuehnel obtained was that respondent was participating in Alcoholics Anonymous (AA), a

                                                   -4-
       women’s group, and going to church; however, Kuehnel was told that respondent was not in
       mental health treatment because “she had been kicked out due to verbal aggression.” In June
       2023, E.H.’s foster parent attempted to talk with respondent and send her pictures, but
       respondent “cussed him out, and they ended the call.” At some point, A.H.’s foster parent, who
       is respondent’s mother, was taken off of the jail’s call list because respondent was yelling and
       threatening her.
¶ 20        Kuehnel testified that respondent was convicted of the federal cyberstalking charges in
       November 2023 and transferred to a federal prison in Waseca in January 2024. At this point in
       the hearing, the trial court momentarily halted testimony due to some background noise from
       respondent’s phone and asked her to mute herself while the noise was ongoing. Respondent
       informed the court the noise was her crying, saying, “I can’t control it. I already know where
       this is going,” and, “I really am trying to keep it together, but I’m so hurt that I cannot stop
       crying because I am so hurt, I’m so hurt.”
¶ 21        When testimony resumed, Kuehnel stated that she was unable to have contact with
       respondent between October 2023 and January 2024 because respondent refused, and between
       January and March 2024 due to communication issues with the federal prison. Kuehnel stated
       that the “one and only thing [she] received” about respondent’s mental health treatment was a
       note from a psychiatrist in March 2024, which merely stated “that they had concerns and just
       kind of that she was attending.” Kuehnel explained that respondent had her contact information
       but never took the initiative to reach out to her.
¶ 22        Kuehnel was finally able to have another child and family team meeting with respondent
       in May 2024. At that meeting, they reviewed the service plan, visitation, and releases of
       information. Kuehnel testified that respondent
                “was cooperative with the entire thing and with setting up visits until we asked her
                about signing consents. Then she became very verbally aggressive and yelling and
                screaming and wanted to never see us or talk to us or have contact with us and didn’t
                want to do visits. She wanted nothing to do with us.”
¶ 23        Kuehnel testified that respondent reported that she was either doing parenting classes or
       trying to sign up for parenting classes, but Kuehnel was not able to verify that because
       respondent had not signed any releases of information. Kuehnel did not have any contact with
       respondent between May and August 2024, except receiving from respondent’s prison
       caseworker “some certificates of her completing parenting phase 1 and some ACE classes”
       and participation in “some groups.” Kuehnel did not know what an “ACE class” was and could
       not verify respondent’s engagement. Kuehnel testified that even if respondent had engaged in
       those services and they were satisfactory, she would have needed to make more progress after
       being released to complete her service plan.
¶ 24        Kuehnel testified that respondent’s last in-person visit with A.H. was in February 2023.
       Although respondent refused in-person visitation after that point, she had phone calls with A.H.
       until May 2024. Kuehnel testified that DCFS identified Thomas H., who was deceased, as the
       putative father for E.H. Thomas H.’s grandparents were tested for paternity in his stead and
       were found to be a 99.9% genetic match.
¶ 25        Before respondent’s counsel started his cross-examination, the trial court allowed
       respondent and her counsel to enter a Zoom breakout room to confer to ensure that he could
       address all of her concerns during his cross-examination. Upon resuming cross-examination,
       Kuehnel testified that respondent said she would not sign any consent forms because she

                                                  -5-
       believed she was signing her rights away and that it was a violation of federal health privacy
       laws, despite Kuehnel explaining several times that was not the case. Kuehnel explained that
       she had mailed the consent forms to respondent before the May 2023 child and family team
       meeting. She stated that there were several services available to respondent while incarcerated,
       including AA, a women’s group, church, counseling, and psychiatric services, which the
       agency likely would have accepted. Respondent reported to Kuehnel that she was engaged in
       these services, but Kuehnel was unable to determine how much she engaged or the content of
       any of the classes. At some point, Kuehnel learned that respondent had been dismissed from
       telehealth psychiatric appointments due to verbal aggression. Kuehnel stated that she had not
       had any contact with respondent since May 2024.
¶ 26       Kuehnel further testified that she believed respondent was diagnosed with depression and
       “something like schizophrenia.” Kuehnel stated that respondent believed she had been
       misdiagnosed and did not have mental health problems. The integrated assessment noted that
       respondent had a history of psychiatric concerns, including severe depression,
       attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and bipolar disorder. The assessment also
       reported that the interview had to be terminated after respondent “became agitated and her
       responses became more hostile.” The May 2024 service plan likewise stated that respondent
       had a documented diagnosis of bipolar disorder but added that respondent’s mother reported
       that respondent told her that she had been diagnosed with schizoaffective disorder. Kuehnel
       testified that respondent was not taking any medications. Kuehnel stated that respondent had
       never addressed her mental health concerns. Kuehnel explained that she was concerned about
       respondent’s mental health because “she could go from being calm one minute to very
       aggressive in wording the next minute and screaming and yelling. She didn’t really seem to
       have control over any emotions.”
¶ 27       Respondent testified that she was advised by her mother, who was the foster parent of A.H.,
       as well as her criminal attorneys from her federal case, not to communicate with Kuehnel. She
       did talk with Kuehnel on the phone in December 2023 and told Kuehnel that she would not
       complete the integrated assessment because of “[t]he clause that says I am asking the Court to
       permanently terminate my rights.” She said she was “also concerned about the fact that I have
       been under psych malpractice,” as she believed she had been misdiagnosed and did not want
       the trial court and DCFS to receive mental health documentation she believed to be incorrect.
       She accused the psychiatrist under whose care she had been between 2020 and 2022 of forcing
       medication and “not actually providing the care that I found to be a fiduciary relationship as
       he was very narcissistic, condescending, very unprofessional, refused to actually treat the
       patient and instead wanted to force a diagnosis on me.” She said that she filed a malpractice
       suit against him. She claimed that she had never been removed from mental health services
       while at the Sangamon County or Macon County jails. She also filed malpractice suits against
       the providers she had while incarcerated in Sangamon and Macon Counties, as well as at the
       federal prison in Waseca.
¶ 28       Respondent testified that she signed up for services at the prison in Waseca as soon as she
       arrived there, but they had waiting lists for every class. She said that she was admitted to some
       of these classes in July 2024 only after she filed a grievance about the issue. She claimed to
       have completed phase two parenting classes and several ACE classes, which she said were
       intended to lower recidivism levels. She said she had been attending AA classes since she got
       to prison and had been sober from alcohol, marijuana, and nicotine for two years. She


                                                   -6-
       acknowledged she previously had an addiction to “air duster” that “led to an addiction of
       cocaine to get off the air duster.”
¶ 29       Respondent testified that she did not object to engaging in any of the services required by
       DCFS and believed she already completed all the services in her service plan. When her
       attorney asked if she would be willing to sign the releases of information after going over the
       clause with him, respondent expressed hesitation because of her “concerns with these
       providers” and would want the clause to be removed. She also claimed that she never refused
       visitation, but that “[t]he limited visitation has been all on DCFS’s deciding that the
       relationship between me and my children and the physical contact and the bond is not, is not
       relevant,” and “[t]he foster parents are unwilling to work with me half the time.” She stated
       that her conditional release date was supposed to be March 31, 2025. She also maintained that
       “there’s a chance that I have been wrongly incarcerated for the last two years of my life,” and
       she was appealing her federal criminal conviction. She refused to discuss the events that led to
       her conviction.
¶ 30       When asked if she thought her caseworker’s concerns about her mental health were
       accurate, respondent stated, “I am very frustrated because whenever I express concerns, there’s
       a statute, a clause, there is like, you are wrong, you’re delusional that is counteracting every
       emotion that I have.” She expressed that she felt justified in her frustration, saying, “I believe
       that there is a vendetta that’s against me” and “an agenda that you guys are trying to reach or
       somebody is that’s trying to terminate my parental rights.” She reported that she was working
       with a mental health provider. She stated that the only mental health issue she had was
       posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), which she was being treated for, but any other diagnoses
       were the result of psychiatric malpractice. When asked by the State whether she had a doctorate
       or medical degree, respondent said, “I plead the Fifth” (see U.S. Const., amend. V). She
       explained that she disputed the doctors’ diagnoses “because I know what I suffer from” and “I
       read what they charted about me, and I mean, I clinically disagree.” She continually repeated
       her belief that her providers violated their fiduciary relationships with her. She stated that she
       was not taking any medications.
¶ 31       The trial court ultimately found that respondent was unfit because she failed to (1) show a
       reasonable degree of interest, concern, or responsibility to her children’s welfare “by engaging
       in acts which lead [sic] to her being criminally convicted and sentenced” and (2) make
       reasonable progress during any nine-month period following the adjudication of neglect of
       either child. The court explicitly said it was not finding that respondent was unfit because she
       failed to make reasonable efforts. The court emphasized that “[i]t’s very clear to the Court that
       there are mental health issues.” The court noted that respondent had been psychiatrically
       hospitalized several times and that she filed malpractice suits against multiple psychiatrists
       who treated her both before and during her incarceration. The court pointed out that “it’s very
       clear to the Court that you cannot make progress on mental health issues when you’re suing
       your psychiatrist.”
¶ 32       The trial court reiterated several additional facts it believed to be relevant. Respondent was
       aggressive during the integrated assessment, which consequently had to be ended early. She
       refused to sign the integrated assessment. She had not consistently participated in mental health
       treatment or complied with treatment recommendations. The court also noted that it was not
       as concerned with whether respondent had completed parenting classes, maintained contact
       with her caseworker, or had visitation, as the primary issue was her mental health. The court

                                                   -7-
       pointed out that “[d]espite whether or not she’s talking to someone, meeting with someone at
       any of these facilities, even if you could try and say there’s some effort there, there is clearly
       no progress.” The court also mentioned that respondent was incarcerated for cyberstalking and
       threatening a caseworker.

¶ 33                                       2. Best-Interest Hearing
¶ 34       The trial court held the best-interest hearing on October 31, 2024. The following evidence
       was presented. Kuehnel testified that she observed the minors once a month in their respective
       homes. A.H. was placed with his maternal grandmother, who was in her forties, and E.H. was
       placed with his paternal aunt and uncle. At the time of the hearing, A.H. was two years old,
       and E.H. was one year old. A.H. lived with his grandmother, grandfather, uncle, and two dogs.
       E.H. lived with his aunt, uncle, some of his cousins, and a dog. Each of them had their own
       room. Both had strong bonds with their respective foster parents, who met all their needs.
       Every other week, A.H. and E.H. had an overnight visit together. Kuehnel testified that both
       boys were happy, always smiling, seemed very loved in their homes, went to their foster
       parents willingly for anything, and were very attached to the other family members in their
       homes. The foster parents of both children “have been very adamant” about maintaining their
       sibling relationship. Both foster parents were willing to adopt the children and signed
       permanency commitment forms. Kuehnel believed it was in the children’s best interest to have
       respondent’s parental rights terminated, as respondent “still needs significant mental health
       treatment.”
¶ 35       On cross-examination, Kuehnel testified that she was previously able to observe A.H. with
       respondent, but A.H. “was very, very young and [respondent] cried most of the time and [A.H.]
       slept a lot of the time,” so she could not say whether there was a bond between A.H. and
       respondent. Respondent had phone calls with A.H., and his foster parents “say that
       [respondent] talks to [A.H.] a lot,” but he “doesn’t respond much” because he is “still kind of
       young” and “otherwise he still runs and plays while she talks.” Kuehnel noted that E.H.’s foster
       parents “made an attempt to talk with [respondent] and she had cussed [them] out.” Kuehnel
       stated that the children live in different neighborhoods and would not be in the same school
       district. She testified that both foster parents “have stated that if [respondent] got the help she
       needs *** then they would be willing to involve her” in the children’s lives after she was
       released from prison.
¶ 36       Respondent called Valerie Kessler Mathis as a witness. However, Kessler Mathis never
       observed respondent with her children, so she was quickly dismissed from the witness stand.
¶ 37       Respondent testified next. She began her testimony by referencing statistics about children
       in DCFS’s custody. Respondent expressed her concerns that A.H. and E.H. were separated and
       only reunited briefly, which “puts biological strain on the emotional well-being of the children
       on the antisocial behaviors.” She believed that A.H. was “walking around with a picture of his
       mother crying that he wants her” and “showing behaviors that I’m concerned about.” She also
       felt that there was hostility between her and E.H.’s foster parents. When asked whether
       Kuehnel’s explanation for that hostility was accurate, respondent testified, “I did not cuss out
       the foster parents. I possibly used colorful words.” She also expressed her belief that the foster
       parents and DCFS workers were committing a crime by interfering with her visitation rights.
       She believed that A.H. was “having a meltdown when [E.H.] leaves him” but acknowledged
       that she is “only allowed to observe over the phone.” She expressed, “I myself, have been a

                                                    -8-
       victim of the state family courts for now 23 years.” She further testified that if released from
       custody, she would go home; when asked where home is, she said, “[T]he home is the home
       address that I have,” though she could not remember the address. She said that she would reside
       with Daniel K., her fiancé, with whom she had been in a relationship for three years.
¶ 38       Daniel K. testified next. He stated that he had been in a relationship with respondent for
       “[o]ver two years” but could not remember the actual date that they got engaged. He had
       observed respondent talking to A.H. over the phone but had never had any interaction with the
       children himself. He admitted to pleading guilty to misdemeanors in 2016 and 2024.
¶ 39       The trial court found that it was in the children’s best interest that respondent’s parental
       rights be terminated. The court noted the various factors it was required to consider under the
       statute. In its analysis, the court reiterated several salient facts. Both children had been living
       in their respective homes for a significant time, given their ages. They were both placed with
       family members, though not together. They appeared to be smiling when Kuehnel saw them,
       and Kuehnel did not report that A.H. was upset when he was separated from E.H., as
       respondent stated. The court also acknowledged that “at two years old, everything is going to
       upset the two-year-old.” Both children’s foster parents stated they would adopt the children.
       Respondent was convicted and serving a sentence in federal prison, and she was “not here for
       her children,” who deserved permanency. The court noted it was the first time that it heard that
       respondent was engaged and that Daniel K. had never even met either child. The court also
       emphasized that with respondent’s “longstanding and severe” mental health issues, “it’s going
       to take quite a bit of therapy and treatment and progress for her to address those issues to the
       point where she would be ready to have a child returned to her care even if at this point to have
       unsupervised visits.” How long that would take was “a complete unknown at [that] point.”
¶ 40       The trial court thus entered an order terminating respondent’s parental rights. This appeal
       followed.

¶ 41                                 B. Attorney’s Conduct on Appeal
¶ 42        The circuit court of Sangamon County appointed Mr. Panichi on November 4, 2024, to
       represent respondent-appellant in this accelerated appeal from the termination of respondent’s
       parental rights filed under Illinois Supreme Court Rule 311(a) (eff. July 1, 2018). After an in-
       depth review of the briefs, this court recognized that Mr. Panichi cited eight apparently
       nonexistent cases in respondent’s opening and reply briefs. In one instance, he provided a
       direct quote from one of these cases. Concerned that respondent’s briefs contained citations to
       apparently nonexistent cases, this court, on its own motion, ordered Mr. Panichi to file copies
       of “In re M.F., 2022 IL App (2d) 210614”; “In re A.G., 2022 IL App (1st) 220119”; “In re
       R.C., 195 Ill. App. 3d 827 (1st Dist. 1990)”; “In re R.D.S., 2021 IL App (2d) 200092”; “In re
       M.H., Jr., 196 Ill. App. 3d 976 (1st Dist. 1990)”; “In re Brandon E., 382 Ill. App. 3d 389 (2d
       Dist. 2008)”; “In re K.L.P., 381 Ill. App. 3d 817 (4th Dist. 2008)”; and “In re Ca. B., 386 Ill.
       App. 3d 507 (2d Dist. 2008).” We further ordered Mr. Panichi to appear before this court
       personally and show cause why he should not be sanctioned.
¶ 43        On June 16, 2025, Mr. Panichi filed a two-page response to this court’s rule to show cause
       entitled “Verified Memorandum and Response to June 10, 2025, Order re Rule 375 Sanctions.”
       He stated in paragraph 2(a) of his response that “the following two cases are valid, published
       Illinois Appellate Court decisions and were properly cited,” and he cited “In re Brandon A.,
       395 Ill. App. 3d 224 (4th Dist. 2009),” and “In re Adoption of K.L.P., 316 Ill. App. 3d 110 (4th

                                                    -9-
       Dist. 2000).” In paragraph 2(b), he stated that “the following case is a valid published decision
       but was incorrectly cited in the brief,” and he cited “In re M.F., 304 Ill. App. 3d 236 (5th Dist.
       1999).” In paragraph 2(c) of his response, he admitted that the “remaining five citations
       contained in the Appellant’s Brief were determined to be invalid or nonexistent.” He attached
       copies of the first three decisions referenced in his response.
¶ 44        Mr. Panichi appeared before this court personally on June 18, 2025. The proceedings were
       recorded. He acknowledged that he was familiar with the principles of Illinois Supreme Court
       Rule 341(h) (eff. Oct. 1, 2020) and the principles of Illinois Rules of Professional Conduct of
       2010 Rules 1.1, 3.1, 3.3 (eff. Jan. 1, 2010), and Rule 8.4 (eff. July 1, 2024). He stated that he
       had been appointed to handle this appeal by the circuit court of Sangamon County and was
       compensated for his work at the rate of $150 per hour, for a total of $6,925. He did not intend
       to submit any further invoices for this case. He later addressed this amount, explaining that it
       “was more than [he] usually charge[s]” and this case “was out of the ordinary in terms of time
       spent” because his office “did some exceptional work trying to get some other information
       before the court” by filing “a brief trying to open up the proofs,” but he did not remember the
       matter exactly.
¶ 45        Regarding his response in paragraph 2(a), the court pointed out to Mr. Panichi that despite
       his claim that Brandon A., 395 Ill. App. 3d 224, and Adoption of K.L.P., 316 Ill. App. 3d 110,
       were “valid” cases that “were properly cited,” he had actually cited in his brief “In re
       Brandon E., 382 Ill. App. 3d 389 (2d Dist. 2008),” and “In re K.L.P., 381 Ill. App. 3d 817 (4th
       Dist. 2008),” which were completely different citations. (We also noted that Adoption of K.L.P.
       is a Second District case, not a Fourth District case, as Mr. Panichi wrote in his response.) The
       court further observed that neither Brandon A. nor Adoption of K.L.P. supports the propositions
       for which “Brandon E.” and “K.L.P.” were originally cited in his opening brief. Mr. Panichi
       stated that he was not currently familiar with the content of the cases but claimed that he had
       been so at one time. He admitted that he did not read either of these decisions before filing his
       response to the court’s rule to show cause. He later admitted that he misread the court’s rule to
       show cause as citing “Brandon A.,” when it cited “Brandon E.” He acknowledged that he did
       not list a citation for “Brandon E.” in his response and never looked up whether “Brandon E.”
       existed.
¶ 46        Regarding his response in paragraph 2(b), the court noted during the hearing that M.F., 304
       Ill. App. 3d 236, the case Mr. Panichi claimed to have intended to cite, did not contain the
       quotation for which he cited “In re M.F., 2022 IL App (2d) 210614,” in his reply brief.
       Mr. Panichi admitted that he did not know where he obtained the quotation and did not believe
       it was accurate. The court stated that Mr. Panichi may have persisted in misleading the court
       in his statements in paragraphs 2(a) and 2(b) of his response.
¶ 47        Mr. Panichi later explained that his miscitation in his briefs of the three cases he attached
       to his response to the rule to show cause “might be an example of poor lawyering, poor arguing,
       stretching principles, I don’t have an answer for that.” However, he then claimed that “to the
       best of [his] knowledge, [these cases] were cited for the appropriate principles.” He admitted,
       though, that he had read only one of the three cases he attached to his response and could not
       remember which one. He further explained that he believed that the court’s rule to show cause
       asked only for him to identify which cases existed, not to argue how those cases applied.
¶ 48        The court then turned to Mr. Panichi’s response in paragraph 2(c) and asked how those five
       admittedly nonexistent citations came to appear in his brief. Mr. Panichi initially clarified that

                                                   - 10 -
       he did not claim to have an “excuse,” just an “explanation.” He also informed the court that he
       had already notified Judge Karen Tharp, who appointed him as counsel in this appeal, as well
       as his private clients whose appeals were pending, about these proceedings. He then admitted
       that in preparing the briefs and conducting research in this case, he used artificial intelligence
       (AI) to write a draft of the brief, then “looked it over and [he] did not read the cases that were
       in support of the brief.” He further explained that at the time he filed the briefs in this case, he
       was “extremely busy” and “was not thorough enough.” He stated that his use of AI was
       prompted by “a perfect storm” of “temptation of AI out there at a time when [he] was busy and
       trying to meet deadlines.” He had since learned about AI “hallucinations,” in which the AI
       “dreams things up when it doesn’t have an answer.” He acknowledged that he should have
       read the cases that the AI presented to him. He additionally admitted that he was “between
       research software” at the time he prepared the briefs in this case but had since signed up with
       Westlaw. He informed the court that he did not intend to use AI going forward.
¶ 49       Mr. Panichi admitted that “the whole thing stems from the fact that [he] barely did any
       personal work [him]self on this appeal.” He stated that he “was careless” and “reckless when
       [he] did it” and “was wrong to do that.” Mr. Panichi then stated:
                “I don’t have any reason that the court shouldn’t sanction me, except for the fact that I
                didn’t do it intentionally. I did it carelessly, and recklessly, I hadn’t done it before, and
                if I’m lucky enough to be able to continue practicing before the appellate court, I’m not
                going to do it again.”
       He acknowledged that while he relied on the legal assistant in his office a great deal, he, as the
       attorney, was ultimately responsible in this matter. He stated, “[W]hatever happens, I deserve
       whatever consequences fall, and I’m willing to accept them.” Mr. Panichi asked that no
       sanctions be imposed against respondent, as he was responsible, and further asked the court to
       consider allowing him to file an amended brief. He stated that if he were allowed to file an
       amended brief, he would essentially cite all new cases and read them.
¶ 50       This court informed Mr. Panichi that when it was discovered that the cases cited in his
       briefs apparently did not exist and did not support the assertions in his briefs, the court felt
       compelled to leave no stone unturned to determine whether these cases existed. The court noted
       the research done “was significant and time consuming.” As an example, the court explained
       that when looking into the citation of “In re M.F., 2022 IL App (2d) 210614,” Westlaw and
       the Illinois Courts website confirmed that no case matching that citation existed. There were
       20 Illinois cases titled “In re M.F.,” but none of those cases contained the quotation included
       in Mr. Panichi’s reply brief or any similar statement. Moreover, no Second District case existed
       under case No. 21-0614, though there was a Fourth District case with case No. 21-0614, People
       v. Taylor, 2022 IL App (4th) 210614-U, which was irrelevant. The quote included in Mr.
       Panichi’s brief and attributed to “In re M.F., 2022 IL App (2d) 210614,” “incarceration does
       not preclude a finding of reasonable progress if efforts are made,” did not exist in any case
       from Illinois, any other state, or any federal court, in its entirety. Even a part of the quote—
       “incarceration does not preclude”—did not exist in any Illinois cases, but it did exist in 57
       cases across the country, most of which were to the effect of “incarceration does not preclude
       termination of parental rights.” This was the breadth of the work the court did in relation to
       just one of the eight nonexistent cases Mr. Panichi cited in his brief. The court noted that it was
       explaining this process to Mr. Panichi to illustrate how seriously the court took this matter, as
       well as the impact of Mr. Panichi’s actions on the court’s ability to do its other work efficiently.

                                                    - 11 -
¶ 51       When asked during the proceedings if he had any infirmities that would contribute to his
       carelessness in this case and his ability to practice law, Mr. Panichi stated that other than a
       hearing loss, he had “typical short term memory loss” and was overwhelmed by paperwork,
       but “to the best of [his] knowledge, [he] retain[s] 80, 90% of [his] faculties and memory on
       other matters” and believed he is competent to practice law.
¶ 52       On June 27, 2025, this court ordered Mr. Panichi to file an affidavit with a copy of any
       petition for fees and costs that he filed in the Sangamon County circuit court pursuant to Illinois
       Supreme Court Rule 299 (eff. Jan. 1, 2024), along with documentation of his receipt of
       payment. He did so on June 30, 2025. His affidavit and petition confirmed that he was
       compensated in the amount of $6,925.62 by the Sangamon County treasurer for his work in
       connection with his appointment in this appeal.

¶ 53                                            II. ANALYSIS
¶ 54                                        A. Underlying Action
¶ 55       On appeal, respondent’s contentions are that (1) the trial court’s unfitness finding was
       against the manifest weight of the evidence, (2) the court’s best-interest finding was against
       the manifest weight of the evidence, (3) the court violated her right to self-representation,
       (4) the State failed to provide reasonable accommodations for her during her incarceration, and
       (5) she was denied effective assistance of counsel.
¶ 56       Initially, we note that this is an accelerated appeal under Illinois Supreme Court Rule
       311(a) (eff. July 1, 2018). Under that rule, this court is required to issue its decision within 150
       days after the filing of the notice of appeal unless there has been “good cause shown.” Ill. S.
       Ct. R. 311(a)(5) (eff. July 1, 2018). Here, respondent’s notice of appeal was filed on November
       4, 2024, and this court’s disposition was due to be filed by April 3, 2025. That filing deadline
       has passed. However, this delay is due to respondent’s counsel requesting and this court
       granting four extensions of time to file the opening brief. Even with four extensions, Mr.
       Panichi missed the final extended filing deadline, which was March 24, 2025, and subsequently
       filed a motion for leave to file the brief late on March 27, 2025. This court granted that motion,
       and he ultimately filed respondent’s opening brief on March 31, 2025. Briefing was not
       complete until he filed the reply brief on May 1, 2025. In light of the delay resulting from the
       extensions of time, we find that good cause exists to issue our disposition after the 150-day
       deadline.
¶ 57       We also note that respondent’s counsel’s appellate brief is highly deficient. Illinois
       Supreme Court Rule 341(h)(7) (eff. Oct. 1, 2020) establishes that an appellant’s brief “shall
       contain the contentions of the appellant and the reasons therefor, with citation of the authorities
       and the pages of the record relied on.” The supreme court rules “are not mere suggestions.”
       (Internal quotation marks omitted.) In re Denzel W., 237 Ill. 2d 285, 294 (2010). “[T]hey have
       the force of law and are to be construed in the same manner as statutes.” Denzel W., 237 Ill. 2d
       at 294; see Obert v. Saville, 253 Ill. App. 3d 677, 682 (1993) (“A reviewing court is entitled to
       have issues clearly defined with pertinent authority cited and cohesive arguments presented
       [citation], and it is not a repository into which an appellant may foist the burden of argument
       and research ***.”). Respondent’s brief does not comply with these requirements, as counsel,
       Mr. Panichi, does not cite the record at all in the argument section, provides only one or two
       paragraphs of argument per issue, and cites one or two cases per issue only for boilerplate legal
       principles. Even more concerning, some of counsel’s cited cases do not support the legal

                                                    - 12 -
       principle for which he is citing them, and eight of the cases that counsel cites do not exist,
       which is a very serious issue that this court will address separately below.
¶ 58       This is not the level of advocacy we expect in accelerated cases dealing with a parent’s
       fundamental rights. Nor is it the legal representation that respondent deserves. We considered
       striking the briefs and ordering the trial court to appoint new counsel for respondent to begin
       briefing anew. However, we have decided that doing so would not be the appropriate remedy
       for the rule violations under the specific facts presented. The resolution of this appeal has
       already been significantly delayed by numerous briefing extensions. After having reviewed the
       record thoroughly and researched the numerous issues that respondent’s counsel raises, it is
       clear that there is no nonfrivolous issue that warrants further briefing on respondent’s behalf.
       Given these circumstances, further delaying the resolution of this appeal plainly would not
       serve the best interest of the children. We will thus address the merits of each of respondent’s
       issues despite the violations of supreme court rules in respondent’s brief.

¶ 59                                       1. Neglect Finding
¶ 60       Respondent contends in passing that “there was no direct evidence of abuse or neglect.”
       To the extent she attempts to challenge the trial court’s dispositional orders finding E.H. and
       A.H. neglected and adjudicating them wards of the court, we lack jurisdiction. In juvenile
       neglect cases, dispositional orders adjudging the minor to be a ward of the court are final,
       appealable judgments. In re Leona W., 228 Ill. 2d 439, 456 (2008) (noting that a dispositional
       order removing a minor child from her parents’ custody is “regarded as final and appealable
       as of right” and appealing such an order “is the proper vehicle for challenging a finding of
       abuse or neglect”). Respondent already appealed the court’s dispositional order as to A.H.,
       which this court affirmed (see A.H., 2023 IL App (4th) 230131-U, ¶ 33), and she did not file a
       notice of appeal from the dispositional order as to E.H. We thus lack appellate jurisdiction to
       review those orders. See In re S.P., 2019 IL App (3d) 180476, ¶ 47; Leona W., 228 Ill. 2d at
       456-57.

¶ 61                                              2. Unfitness
¶ 62       The involuntary termination of parental rights involves a two-step process pursuant to
       section 2-29(2) of the Juvenile Court Act of 1987 (Juvenile Court Act) (705 ILCS 405/2-29(2)
       (West 2024)). The State must first prove by clear and convincing evidence that the respondent
       is unfit. In re C.M., 305 Ill. App. 3d 154, 163 (1999). The trial court found that respondent was
       unfit based on her failure to (1) maintain a reasonable degree of interest, concern, or
       responsibility as to the minors’ welfare (750 ILCS 50/1(D)(b) (West 2024)) and (2) make
       reasonable progress toward the return of the minors within nine months following the
       adjudication of neglect (750 ILCS 50/1(D)(m)(ii) (West 2024)).
¶ 63       We will not reverse a trial court’s finding of unfitness unless it is against the manifest
       weight of the evidence. In re Dar. H., 2023 IL App (4th) 230509, ¶ 54. A court’s finding is
       against the manifest weight of the evidence “when the opposite conclusion is clearly apparent.”
       Dar. H., 2023 IL App (4th) 230509, ¶ 54. Under this standard, “we give deference to the trial
       court as the finder of fact because it is in the best position to observe the conduct and demeanor
       of the parties and the witnesses and has a degree of familiarity with the evidence that a
       reviewing court cannot possibly obtain.” In re D.F., 201 Ill. 2d 476, 498-99 (2002). We “must
       not substitute [our] judgment for that of the trial court regarding the credibility of witnesses,

                                                   - 13 -
       the weight to be given to the evidence, or the inferences to be drawn.” D.F., 201 Ill. 2d at 499.
       Ultimately, “[a] parent’s rights may be terminated if a single alleged ground for unfitness is
       supported by clear and convincing evidence.” In re D.C., 209 Ill. 2d 287, 296 (2004).
¶ 64       Respondent posits that the trial court erred in finding her unfit for failing to make
       reasonable efforts and progress, as the “trial court’s findings failed to reflect the substantial
       efforts made by Respondent.” However, the court did not find that respondent failed to make
       reasonable efforts; rather, it found that respondent (1) failed to maintain a reasonable degree
       of interest, concern, or responsibility and (2) failed to make reasonable progress. Respondent’s
       arguments addressing her reasonable efforts are therefore irrelevant. As we may affirm the trial
       court’s judgment “if the evidence supports the finding of unfitness on any one of the alleged
       statutory grounds” (In re H.D., 343 Ill. App. 3d 483, 493 (2003)), we will focus our analysis
       only on whether respondent made reasonable progress.
¶ 65       Reasonable progress, which is assessed under an objective standard, exists when a parent’s
       compliance with the service plan and the trial court’s directives “is sufficiently demonstrable
       and of such a quality that the court, in the near future, will be able to order the child returned
       to parental custody.” (Emphasis in original.) In re L.L.S., 218 Ill. App. 3d 444, 461 (1991). A
       parent fails to make reasonable progress toward the return of the child when the parent fails
       “ ‘to substantially fulfill his or her obligations under the service plan and correct the conditions
       that brought the child into care.’ ” In re C.N., 196 Ill. 2d 181, 217 (2001) (quoting 750 ILCS
       50/1(D)(m) (West Supp. 1999)). Importantly, there is “a significant difference between going
       through the motions, checking off the boxes, and mechanically doing what is asked of the
       parent and actually changing the circumstances that brought the children into care.” In re
       Ta. T., 2021 IL App (4th) 200658, ¶ 56. A finding of unfitness is appropriate if “the court will
       not be able to return the child home in the near future, despite ample time and opportunity for
       compliance with the court’s directives.” Ta. T., 2021 IL App (4th) 200658, ¶ 55.
¶ 66       The trial court’s unfitness finding in this case was not against the manifest weight of the
       evidence. A.H. came into care in May 2022, and E.H. came into care in June 2023 due to
       concerns about respondent’s mental health impacting her ability to care for the minors.
       Respondent was taken into federal custody in October 2022. When the fitness hearing took
       place in October 2024, A.H. had been in care for over two years and E.H. for over one year,
       and respondent had been incarcerated for almost that entire time. The primary recurring issue
       in assessing respondent’s progress was her refusal to sign releases of information, which
       prevented Kuehnel from verifying respondent’s engagement in the services she claimed to
       have engaged in and completed. Moreover, the court was correct that respondent failed to make
       any progress on her mental health issues, which was the primary reason that the minors came
       into care.
¶ 67       Kuehnel testified that she learned that respondent had been removed from mental health
       treatment while incarcerated due to her verbal aggression. It was not the first time that
       respondent’s instability resulted in her being removed from services, as by July 2022, she had
       already been removed from three service providers for the same reason. Kuehnel testified that
       respondent “didn’t really seem to have control over any emotions” and “could go from being
       calm one minute to very aggressive in wording the next minute and screaming and yelling.”
       This issue occurred repeatedly. The interview with respondent for the integrated assessment in
       July 2022 had to be cut short due to respondent’s agitation and hostility. Child and family team
       meetings in May 2023 and May 2024 had to be terminated early when respondent became irate

                                                    - 14 -
       with her caseworkers for requesting that she sign releases of information. Respondent was
       verbally aggressive toward her children’s foster parents, including her own mother, resulting
       in the foster parents limiting contact and being removed from the prison call list. Respondent’s
       behavior in court was similarly uncontrolled and aggressive at times, as she interrupted the
       trial court and the attorneys repeatedly with her own interjections.
¶ 68        The integrated assessment noted that respondent has documented diagnoses of severe
       depression, ADHD, and bipolar disorder. However, respondent staunchly denied having any
       mental health issues other than PTSD and maintained that any other diagnoses were psychiatric
       malpractice. She reported she was not taking any medications. She testified that she believed
       that people had a vendetta against her with the intent of terminating her parental rights and that
       she was justified in her frustration throughout the case and was herself a “victim of the state
       family courts for now 23 years.” She stated that she had sued at least four psychiatrists for
       malpractice: one who provided care prior to her incarceration, one at the Macon County jail,
       one at the Sangamon County jail, and one at the federal prison in Waseca. She explained that
       one reason for her refusal to sign releases of information was her concern that DCFS would
       obtain access to her prior psychiatric records that reflected what she believed to be
       misdiagnoses.
¶ 69        All these facts reflect that throughout the pendency of these two cases, respondent never
       addressed her mental health issues, and the children plainly could not return to her care in the
       near future. The evidence showed that respondent had access to mental health treatment during
       the entire time she was incarcerated. However, the record also shows that respondent resisted
       treatment and refused medication. The trial court correctly pointed out that “it’s very clear to
       the Court that you cannot make progress on mental health issues when you’re suing your
       psychiatrist.”
¶ 70        Respondent has thus failed “to substantially fulfill *** her obligations under the service
       plan and correct the conditions that brought the child into care.” (Internal quotation marks
       omitted.) C.N., 196 Ill. 2d at 217. She was no closer to the return of her children in October
       2024 than she was when the children were removed from her custody in May 2022 and June
       2023. As “the court will not be able to return the child[ren] home in the near future, despite
       ample time and opportunity for compliance with the court’s directives” (Ta. T., 2021 IL App
       (4th) 200658, ¶ 55), the trial court’s finding of unfitness was not against the manifest weight
       of the evidence.

¶ 71                                       3. Best-Interest Finding
¶ 72       In her opening brief, respondent does not expressly challenge the best-interest finding;
       rather, she obliquely states that the “trial court’s findings were against the manifest weight of
       the evidence.” The words “best interest” do not appear in the opening brief at all. Respondent’s
       counsel addressed the court’s best-interest finding for the first time in the reply brief. The State
       is correct that this argument is forfeited. See Ill. S. Ct. R. 341(h)(7) (eff. Oct. 1, 2020) (“Points
       not argued are forfeited and shall not be raised in the reply brief ***.”). However, forfeiture of
       an issue “is a limitation on the parties and not on this court.” People v. Hanson, 212 Ill. 2d 212,
       216 (2004). Because we have elected not to dismiss the appeal or order rebriefing despite the
       pervasive violations of Rule 341(h), we will address the evidence supporting the court’s best-
       interest finding despite forfeiture of the issue.


                                                    - 15 -
¶ 73       If a parent is found to be unfit, the State must then prove that terminating parental rights is
       in the minor’s best interest. In re J.B., 2019 IL App (4th) 190537, ¶ 31. At this step, the focus
       shifts from the parent to the child. The burden on the State at the best-interest hearing is a
       preponderance of the evidence. See In re D.T., 212 Ill. 2d 347, 366 (2004). When determining
       a minor’s best interest, the trial court must consider the following factors,
                “in the context of the child’s age and developmental needs:
                        (a) the physical safety and welfare of the child, including food, shelter, health,
                    and clothing;
                        (b) the development of the child’s identity;
                        (c) the child’s background and ties, including familial, cultural, and religious;
                        (d) the child’s sense of attachments, including:
                             (i) where the child actually feels love, attachment, and a sense of being
                        valued (as opposed to where adults believe the child should feel such love,
                        attachment, and a sense of being valued);
                             (ii) the child’s sense of security;
                             (iii) the child’s sense of familiarity;
                             (iv) continuity of affection for the child;
                             (v) the least disruptive placement alternative for the child;
                        (e) the child’s wishes and long-term goals;
                        (f) the child’s community ties, including church, school, and friends;
                        (g) the child’s need for permanence which includes the child’s need for stability
                    and continuity of relationships with parent figures and with siblings and other
                    relatives;
                        (h) the uniqueness of every family and child;
                        (i) the risks attendant to entering and being in substitute care; and
                        (j) the preferences of the persons available to care for the child.” 705 ILCS
                    405/1-3(4.05) (West 2024).
¶ 74       The trial court’s best-interest determination will not be disturbed on appeal unless it is
       against the manifest weight of the evidence. J.B., 2019 IL App (4th) 190537, ¶ 33. We afford
       great deference to the court’s determination, as it is in the best position to view the witnesses
       and judge their credibility. In re C.P., 2019 IL App (4th) 190420, ¶ 71.
¶ 75       The trial court’s best-interest finding in this case was not against the manifest weight of
       the evidence. Both A.H. and E.H. had been in foster care for almost their entire lives—A.H.
       was two months old when he was taken into care, and E.H. was taken into care immediately
       after his birth. While not placed together, both children were placed with family, with whom
       they were bonded and who provided for their safety and welfare. See 705 ILCS 405/1-
       3(4.05)(a), (d) (West 2024). After years in foster care, the court reasonably placed significant
       weight on the minors’ need for permanence, which was not likely to be with respondent due to
       her incarceration and failure to address her mental health issues. See 705 ILCS 405/1-
       3(4.05)(g) (West 2024). The court correctly pointed out that with respondent’s “longstanding
       and severe” mental health issues, “it’s going to take quite a bit of therapy and treatment and
       progress for her to address those issues to the point where she would be ready to have a child
       returned to her care even if at this point to have unsupervised visits.” The last time that

                                                   - 16 -
       respondent had seen A.H. in person was in February 2023. Respondent had not seen E.H. in
       person since his birth in May 2023. The minors’ foster parents arranged biweekly overnight
       visits between the minors to ensure that they maintained their sibling bond. See 705 ILCS
       405/1-3(4.05)(c), (g) (West 2024). Both foster parents had already signed permanency
       commitment paperwork.
¶ 76       Though respondent testified that the minors could live with her when she was released from
       prison, she could not remember the address of that home. She also stated that Daniel K., her
       fiancé, would live with them and help care for the minors. However, the trial court correctly
       pointed out that Daniel K. had never met or interacted with the minors and only observed some
       of respondent’s phone calls with A.H. There is also no indication in the record that DCFS
       screened Daniel K. Thus, the children would have no attachment to or familiarity with Daniel
       K., while they did have demonstrable bonds with their foster families. Considering all these
       factors, the court’s finding that it was in the minors’ best interest to terminate respondent’s
       parental rights was not against the manifest weight of the evidence.

¶ 77                                       4. Self-Representation
¶ 78       Respondent next argues that the trial court violated her right to self-representation where
       she “repeatedly and clearly expressed her desire to represent herself.” After only three
       sentences of argument, with no citations to the record or any supporting cases, respondent
       makes the conclusory assertion that the denial of her right to self-representation constituted
       structural error and violated her constitutional rights. The State responds that this issue lacks
       merit because respondent never expressed dissatisfaction with Liles, who represented her
       during the termination proceedings, or asked to represent herself in the termination
       proceedings.
¶ 79       First, we find respondent’s argument clearly violates Illinois Supreme Court Rule
       341(h)(7) (eff. Oct. 1, 2020) (stating the argument section “shall contain the contentions of the
       appellant and the reasons therefor, with citation of the authorities and the pages of the record
       relied on”). Moreover, our own review of the record confirms the State’s contention that
       respondent never asked to represent herself in the termination proceedings that are the subject
       of this appeal. While respondent made a request to represent herself during the adjudication of
       wardship of A.H. and the temporary shelter care hearing as to E.H., those hearings are not the
       subject of this appeal. As the dispositional order is a final judgment in juvenile neglect cases
       (see Leona W., 228 Ill. 2d at 456), respondent should have asserted that argument in her appeal
       from the dispositional order as to A.H. and again if she had appealed from the dispositional
       order as to E.H. As a result, we have no jurisdiction to review this argument in an appeal from
       the termination of her parental rights. See Leona W., 228 Ill. 2d at 456-57.

¶ 80                            5. Accommodations During Incarceration
¶ 81       Respondent contends that the State and DCFS failed to provide reasonable efforts and
       accommodations during her incarceration. She relies on two cases, D.T. and In re M.J., 314 Ill.
       App. 3d 649 (2000), to support the boilerplate statement that “the State must make reasonable
       efforts to reunify families, even when a parent is incarcerated.” Respondent did not provide
       pinpoint citations of those cases. Thereafter, respondent’s entire argument consists of three
       conclusory sentences:


                                                  - 17 -
                “DCFS failed to facilitate consistent visitation, ignored her parenting program
                completions, and failed to accommodate communication and video calls consistently.
                [Respondent’s] incarceration was used as a basis to limit services and support. The
                State did not tailor its reunification efforts to her circumstances, denying her the tools
                needed to demonstrate progress.”
       Respondent also did not identify any remedy for this purported error.
¶ 82       Neither D.T. nor M.J. supports respondent’s contention that the State must make reasonable
       efforts to reunify families even when a respondent is incarcerated; in fact, these cases do not
       discuss a respondent’s incarceration or efforts by the State and DCFS at all. We also note that
       in her reply brief, respondent ostensibly relied on a case called “In re M.F., 2022 IL App (2d)
       210614,” for the proposition that “incarceration does not preclude a finding of reasonable
       progress if efforts are made.” However, no such case appears to exist, and we can find no case
       that contains that quote.
¶ 83       Respondent’s argument also plainly fails on the merits. As compared to reasonable efforts,
       reasonable progress, as discussed above, is “an objective standard that is not concerned with a
       parent’s individual efforts and abilities.” In re Nevaeh R., 2017 IL App (2d) 170229, ¶ 21. It is
       true that “incarceration can impede progress toward the goal of reunification.” Nevaeh R., 2017
       IL App (2d) 170229, ¶ 21. However, the Juvenile Court Act contains “no exception for time
       spent in prison,” and “[i]ndeed, no mention is made of incarceration” in the statute. In re J.L.,
       236 Ill. 2d 329, 340 (2010). Thus, “time spent incarcerated is included in the nine-month period
       during which reasonable progress must be made under section 1(D)(m)(ii).” J.L., 236 Ill. 2d at
       343.
¶ 84       Similar to Nevaeh R., 2017 IL App (2d) 170229, ¶ 24, “respondent’s incarceration did not
       prevent [her] from complying with the service plan. [Her] failure to apply for the services is
       what resulted in [her] noncompliance.” Kuehnel testified that respondent had many services
       available to her during her incarceration, which likely would have been sufficient to meet the
       requirements of her service plan, and she engaged in at least some of them. However, Kuehnel
       also testified that the main barrier to assessing respondent’s progress was respondent’s refusal
       to sign releases of information. That DCFS lacked critical information about respondent’s
       progress was thus not the State’s or DCFS’s fault, but respondent’s. Moreover, as discussed
       above, the primary reason that the trial court found respondent unfit was her failure to make
       reasonable progress in addressing her mental health issues, not her engagement in other
       services or lack of visitation. Mental health care was available to respondent during her
       incarceration; however, rather than using these services to address her mental health concerns,
       respondent denied that she had any issues and sued her psychiatric care providers for
       malpractice for misdiagnosing her with mental illnesses she “clinically disagreed” that she had.
       DCFS and the State did not deny respondent the accommodations she needed to progress
       toward completing her service plan while incarcerated—respondent denied herself the
       opportunity to make progress by failing to take responsibility for and address her significant
       mental health concerns.

¶ 85                           6. Ineffective Assistance of Trial Counsel
¶ 86      Respondent lastly argues that she was denied effective assistance of trial counsel where
       counsel failed to call key witnesses, object to “inflammatory testimony,” or advocate for
       meaningful accommodations during incarceration.

                                                   - 18 -
¶ 87       We “apply the same standard utilized in criminal cases to determine a parent’s claim of
       ineffective assistance of counsel appointed under the Juvenile Court Act.” In re A.P.-M., 2018
       IL App (4th) 180208, ¶ 39. Under that standard, the respondent must show that her counsel’s
       performance was both deficient and prejudicial. A.P.-M., 2018 IL App (4th) 180208, ¶ 39. An
       attorney’s performance is deficient where it “fell below an objective standard of
       reasonableness.” A.P.-M., 2018 IL App (4th) 180208, ¶ 40. To establish prejudice, the
       respondent must show that “but for counsel’s errors, there is a reasonable probability that the
       result of the proceeding would have been different.” A.P.-M., 2018 IL App (4th) 180208, ¶ 41.
¶ 88       Respondent has not shown that her trial counsel’s performance was deficient or prejudicial.
       As the State correctly points out, respondent does not identify which witnesses her counsel
       failed to call, what testimony counsel failed to object to, or what accommodations counsel
       failed to request. Moreover, respondent was represented by two different attorneys during the
       proceedings below—Young and Liles—and she does not specify which attorney allegedly
       provided ineffective assistance. Our review of the record suggests respondent took issue with
       Young rather than Liles. However, Young did not represent respondent at the termination
       hearing and had not represented her since Liles appeared at the adjudicatory hearing as to E.H.
       in October 2023, a year prior to the termination hearing. Young’s performance thus could not
       have changed the result of the termination proceedings.
¶ 89       To the extent that respondent instead intended to challenge Liles’s representation, the
       record does not support her contention that Liles provided ineffective assistance. Liles
       vigorously represented respondent throughout the termination proceedings as to both children,
       repeatedly contacted respondent’s prison to try to secure respondent’s appearance via
       videoconference rather than phone, frequently conferred with respondent, even in the middle
       of a hearing, to ensure he was addressing her concerns, objected to the admission of evidence
       and testimony during the hearings, called the witnesses that respondent wanted, and
       vehemently argued against the termination of her parental rights. His performance was neither
       deficient nor prejudicial.

¶ 90                                            B. Sanctions
¶ 91        The use of AI in the preparation of legal filings has not been previously addressed by the
       Illinois Appellate Court. The American Bar Association (ABA) has explained that generative
       AI (GAI) tools, such as ChatGPT, present a “risk of producing inaccurate output” because GAI
       is “prone to ‘hallucinations,’ providing ostensibly plausible responses that have no basis in fact
       or reality.” ABA Comm. on Ethics & Pro. Resp., Formal Op. 512 (2024). The ABA explained
       that GAI tools “cannot replace the judgment and experience necessary for lawyers to
       competently advise clients about their legal matters or to craft the legal documents or
       arguments required to carry out representations.” ABA Comm. on Ethics & Pro. Resp., Formal
       Op. 512 (2024). It also emphasized that “[i]n judicial proceedings, duties to the tribunal
       likewise require lawyers, before submitting materials to a court, to review these outputs,
       including analysis and citations to authority, and to correct errors, including misstatements of
       law and fact, a failure to include controlling legal authority, and misleading arguments.” ABA
       Comm. on Ethics & Pro. Resp., Formal Op. 512 (2024).
¶ 92        Likewise, in its recent AI policy, the Illinois Supreme Court explained that while the use
       of AI is authorized while practicing in Illinois courts, users must understand its capabilities
       and thoroughly review any AI-generated content. Ill. Sup. Ct., Illinois Supreme Court Policy

                                                   - 19 -
       on Artificial Intelligence (Jan. 1, 2025), https://ilcourtsaudio.blob.core.windows.net/antilles-
       resources/resources/e43964ab-8874-4b7a-be4e-63af019cb6f7/Illinois%20Supreme%20
       Court%20AI%20Policy.pdf [https://perma.cc/WCE6-WZE5] (hereinafter AI Policy). The
       court emphasized that “[u]nsubstantiated or deliberately misleading AI-generated content that
       perpetuates bias, prejudices litigants, or obscures truth-finding and decision-making will not
       be tolerated.” AI Policy, supra.
¶ 93        Though the Illinois Appellate Court has not yet dealt with the issue of litigants submitting
       fictitious AI-generated case law, courts from other jurisdictions have. The federal district court
       for the Southern District of New York emphasized:
                    “Many harms flow from the submission of fake opinions. The opposing party
                wastes time and money in exposing the deception. The Court’s time is taken from other
                important endeavors. The client may be deprived of arguments based on authentic
                judicial precedents. There is potential harm to the reputation of judges and courts whose
                names are falsely invoked as authors of the bogus opinions and to the reputation of a
                party attributed with fictional conduct. It promotes cynicism about the legal profession
                and the American judicial system. And a future litigant may be tempted to defy a
                judicial ruling by disingenuously claiming doubt about its authenticity.” Mata v.
                Avianca, Inc., 678 F. Supp. 3d 443, 448-49 (S.D.N.Y. 2023).

¶ 94                                     1. Mr. Panichi’s Conduct
¶ 95                       a. Paragraph 2(a) and (b) of Mr. Panichi’s Response
¶ 96       In his response to this court’s rule to show cause ordering him to file copies of the eight
       apparently nonexistent cases, Mr. Panichi claimed in paragraph 2(a) that two of these cases did
       exist and “were properly cited” in the brief and claimed in paragraph 2(b) that a third case
       existed but “was incorrectly cited.” He attached copies of these three cases to his response.
¶ 97       A review of the three purportedly valid cases reveals that Mr. Panichi’s claims are false.
       He claims that he correctly cited the existing cases of Brandon A., 395 Ill. App. 3d 224, and
       Adoption of K.L.P., 316 Ill. App. 3d 110. In his briefs, however, he cited “In re Brandon E.,
       382 Ill. App. 3d 389 (2d Dist. 2008),” and “In re K.L.P, 381 Ill. App. 3d. 817 (4th Dist. 2008).”
       As this court pointed out at the hearing on June 18, 2025, these are clearly different cases with
       different names and different citations. Thus, despite his claim to the contrary, these cases were
       not “properly cited” in his briefs. As to the third case, he claimed to have incorrectly cited
       “In re M.F., 2022 IL App (2d) 210614,” when the correct citation was to M.F., 304 Ill. App.
       3d 236.
¶ 98       However, none of these three existing cases support the propositions for which Mr. Panichi
       purportedly cited them in his briefs. In his opening brief, Mr. Panichi cited “In re Brandon E.,
       382 Ill. App. 3d 389 (2d Dist. 2008),” to support the statements that (1) “This Court also
       reviews de novo any constitutional issues raised, such as denial of the right to
       self-representation or ineffective assistance of counsel” and (2) “Due process includes the right
       to self-representation in civil proceedings where fundamental liberty interests are at stake.”
       The decision in Brandon A., 395 Ill. App. 3d 224, which he claimed to have cited correctly all
       along, does not discuss constitutional issues or self-representation.
¶ 99       Mr. Panichi then cited in his opening brief “In re K.L.P., 381 Ill. App. 3d. 817 (4th Dist.
       2008),” for the statement that “Ineffective assistance of counsel applies in parental rights cases


                                                   - 20 -
        and is evaluated under the Strickland v. Washington standard: deficient performance and
        resulting prejudice.” In his response to the rule to show cause, he claimed to have properly
        cited the decision “In re Adoption of K.L.P., 316 Ill. App. 3d 110 (4th Dist. 2000),” which is
        actually a Second District case; however, that case does not discuss ineffective assistance of
        counsel.
¶ 100       Lastly, in his reply brief, Mr. Panichi purported to quote “In re M.F., 2022 IL App (2d)
        210614, ¶ 38,” as stating “incarceration does not preclude a finding of reasonable progress if
        efforts are made.” In his response to the rule to show cause, he claimed this was an incorrect
        citation of M.F., 304 Ill. App. 3d 236. However, the language that Mr. Panichi quoted appears
        nowhere in that decision. The case does not discuss a respondent’s incarceration at all. He
        admitted at the hearing that he did not know where he obtained the quotation and did not
        believe it was accurate. As the court detailed in the hearing on June 18, 2025, not only is the
        originally cited 2022 case nonexistent, but no such quote exists in any case, either in whole or
        in part, that would support the same proposition. Moreover, the quote itself seems nonsensical,
        as it confuses the separate principles of “reasonable progress” and “reasonable efforts”
        applicable in termination of parental rights cases.
¶ 101       When asked why he cited these cases in his response, Mr. Panichi first claimed it was due
        to “poor lawyering, poor arguing, stretching principles,” but later claimed that “to the best of
        [his] knowledge, [these cases] were cited for the appropriate principles.” However, during the
        hearing, Mr. Panichi admitted that he did not read at least two of the three cases that he attached
        to his response. He explained that he believed that he was asked only to identify which cases
        existed, not to argue how those cases applied.
¶ 102       This court finds Mr. Panichi’s response inadequate and not credible. That Mr. Panichi did
        not read these decisions before attaching them in his response to this court’s rule to show cause
        is clear. It is also clear to this court that Mr. Panichi neither “properly cited” two cases nor
        “incorrectly cited” the third; rather, his claims of doing so, as the court pointed out at the
        hearing on June 18, demonstrate his persistence in misleading this court. He admitted that he
        mistook the court’s order as referencing “Brandon A.,” rather than “Brandon E.,” meaning that
        he did not look back at the briefs he filed in this court to check whether he correctly cited this
        case or even meant to cite this case in the first instance. Though he could not explain how he
        arrived at providing these cases, it is obvious that Mr. Panichi simply looked up the case name
        and provided any existing Illinois case that happened to have the same or a similar name.
        Moreover, he could not have intended to cite any of these three cases in the first place, as he
        admitted that he used AI to generate a draft of the brief and did not check the citations in the
        AI-generated response. Despite his claims to the contrary, the three cases that Mr. Panichi
        originally cited in his briefs appear to be three examples of AI “hallucinations.” That he did
        not admit the nonexistence of the cases originally cited in his brief is a serious matter.

¶ 103                             b. Paragraph 2(c) of Mr. Panichi’s Response
¶ 104       In paragraph 2(c) of his response, Mr. Panichi admitted that the remaining five cases
        identified by this court do not exist. As discussed above, he admitted that he used AI to generate
        a draft of the brief, along with the supporting citations, and that he did not independently verify
        any of these citations himself. He now believed these five cases were AI “hallucinations.”
¶ 105       Not only do these specific cases not exist, but in some instances, there are no existing cases
        that support Mr. Panichi’s arguments on appeal at all. As an example, Mr. Panichi cited “In re

                                                    - 21 -
        R.D.S., 2021 IL App (2d) 200092, ¶ 49,” in support of his assertion that the trial court erred by
        failing to conduct an inquiry under Faretta v. California, 422 U.S. 806 (1975), when
        respondent asserted her right to represent herself in the proceedings. Mr. Panichi admitted this
        Second District case does not exist. Even worse, however, is that there are no Illinois cases
        requiring the application of Faretta to parental rights cases. Thus, not only did the AI
        “hallucinate” the case name, it also apparently “hallucinated” this point of law. Other citations
        are similarly unfounded and misleading.

¶ 106                                         2. Rule Violations
¶ 107        Under Illinois Supreme Court Rule 375 (eff. Feb. 1, 1994), this court may, on its own
        initiative, impose appropriate sanctions upon a party or attorney if this court determines that
        they “have wilfully failed to comply with the appeal rules” or if “the appeal or other action
        itself is frivolous.” For the following reasons, we determine that sanctions against Mr. Panichi
        under Rule 375 are appropriate based on his conduct in connection with his representation of
        respondent on appeal.

¶ 108                                            a. Rule 375(a)
¶ 109        There are myriad rules that apply to appeals, including the Illinois Supreme Court rules
        and Illinois Rules of Professional Conduct of 2010. Mr. Panichi has violated many of them.
¶ 110        By citing cases that do not exist for principles of law that do not exist, Mr. Panichi violated
        Illinois Supreme Court Rule 341(h)(7) (eff. Oct. 1, 2020), which requires that an appellant’s
        brief contains “citation of the authorities *** relied on.”
¶ 111        We are also concerned about Mr. Panichi’s disregard of several Illinois Rules of
        Professional Conduct of 2010. By using AI to generate a draft of the briefs and not verifying
        the generated output, Mr. Panichi made the same mistake as the attorneys in Mata, who
        admitted to “ ‘operating under the false assumption’ ” that AI would not “ ‘produce completely
        fabricated cases.’ ” Mata, 678 F. Supp. 3d at 451. Illinois Rule of Professional Conduct of
        2010 Rule 1.1 (eff. Jan. 1, 2010) requires lawyers to “provide competent representation to a
        client.” Competent representation “requires the legal knowledge, skill, thoroughness and
        preparation reasonably necessary for the representation.” Ill. R. Pro. Conduct (2010) R. 1.1
        (eff. Jan. 1, 2010). Part and parcel of maintaining such competence is “keep[ing] abreast of
        changes in the law and its practice, including the benefits and risks associated with relevant
        technology.” Ill. R. Pro. Conduct (2010) R. 1.1, Committee Comments (eff. July 6, 2023); see
        ABA Comm. on Ethics & Pro. Resp., Formal Op. 512 (2024) (“To competently use a GAI tool
        in a client representation,” “lawyers must have a reasonable understanding of the capabilities
        and limitations of the specific GAI technology that the lawyer might use.”). By failing to
        educate himself prior to using AI about the risks inherent in the technology, such as
        “hallucinations” of false information, Mr. Panichi failed to maintain his competence to
        represent his client.
¶ 112        Mr. Panichi’s conduct also implicates professional conduct rules 3.1, 3.3, and 8.4(c) by
        using nonexistent cases in his briefs and thus making false statements and misrepresentations
        of the applicable law to this court. See Ill. R. Pro. Conduct (2010) R. 3.1 (eff. Jan. 1, 2010) (“A
        lawyer shall not bring or defend a proceeding, or assert or controvert an issue therein, unless
        there is a basis in law and fact for doing so that is not frivolous, which includes a good-faith
        argument for an extension, modification or reversal of existing law.”); R. 3.3(a)(1) (eff. Jan. 1,

                                                     - 22 -
        2010) (“A lawyer shall not knowingly *** make a false statement of fact or law to a tribunal
        or fail to correct a false statement of material fact or law previously made to the tribunal by the
        lawyer[.]”); R. 8.4(c) (eff. July 1, 2024) (“It is professional misconduct for a lawyer to”
        “engage in conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation.”).
¶ 113       Moreover, by obtaining these nonexistent case citations and accompanying quotations
        using AI without independently verifying their accuracy, Mr. Panichi failed to comply with
        the Illinois Supreme Court Policy on Artificial Intelligence, which emphasizes that attorneys
        “are accountable for their final work product” and “must thoroughly review AI-generated
        content before submitting it in any court proceeding to ensure accuracy and compliance with
        legal and ethical obligations.” AI Policy, supra.
¶ 114       Although it is indisputable that Mr. Panichi violated numerous rules governing the conduct
        of attorneys representing clients in appeals, such violations must be willful to be sanctionable
        under Rule 375(a). Black’s Law Dictionary defines “willful” as “voluntary and intentional, but
        not necessarily malicious” and clarifies that “[a] voluntary act becomes willful, in law, only
        when it involves conscious wrong or evil purpose on the part of the actor, or at least inexcusable
        carelessness, whether the act is right or wrong.” Black’s Law Dictionary (12th ed. 2024).
¶ 115       Mr. Panichi may not have intentionally chosen to submit fictitious cases to this court, but
        he intentionally generated briefs using AI tools and intentionally did not check any of the
        citations that were generated by AI before filing the briefs. At a minimum, this conduct
        constitutes inexcusable carelessness. Mr. Panichi acknowledged at the hearing that he was
        familiar with the principles of Rule 341(h) and the principles of Illinois Rules of Professional
        Conduct of 2010 Rules 1.1, 3.1, 3.3, and 8.4. He admitted that he (1) was “reckless,” “careless,”
        and “negligent”; (2) did not read any of the cases cited in the AI-generated briefs and did not
        do any independent research; (3) did not read the cases that he attached to his response to this
        court’s rule to show cause; and (4) “barely did any personal work [him]self on this appeal.”
        He also continued to mislead the court by maintaining that he properly cited two existing cases
        in his brief, even though the cases he identified in his response did not match the citations or
        even the case names of the cases cited in his briefs. See Mata, 678 F. Supp. 3d at 457 (“These
        misleading statements support the Court’s finding of subjective bad faith.”); United States v.
        Hayes, 763 F. Supp. 3d 1054, 1064 (E.D. Cal. 2025) (finding the attorney’s “inaccurate and
        misleading statements were not inadvertent as claimed, but knowing and made in bad faith”).
        Mr. Panichi even maintained during the hearing that “to the best of [his] knowledge, [these
        cases] were cited for the appropriate principles,” despite the court explicitly and thoroughly
        explaining that they were not. While we certainly believe that Mr. Panichi’s conduct was not
        intentionally malicious and appreciate his candor, he chose to ignore his professional
        obligations. Mr. Panichi has thus willfully failed to comply with appeal rules under Rule
        375(a).

¶ 116                                          b. Rule 375(b)
¶ 117       Mr. Panichi has also violated Rule 375(b), as his arguments on appeal were frivolous. An
        appeal is deemed frivolous where it is “not warranted by existing law or a good-faith argument
        for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law.” Ill. S. Ct. R. 375(b) (eff. Feb. 1,
        1994). “In determining whether an appeal is frivolous, we apply an objective standard; the
        appeal is considered frivolous if it would not have been brought in good faith by a reasonable,


                                                    - 23 -
        prudent attorney.” (Internal quotation marks omitted.) In re Marriage of Lindell, 2023 IL App
        (2d) 220055, ¶ 25.
¶ 118       Mr. Panichi cited fictitious cases for propositions that were not supported by existing law.
        “A fake opinion is not ‘existing law’ and citation to a fake opinion does not provide a non-
        frivolous ground for extending, modifying, or reversing existing law, or for establishing new
        law.” Mata, 678 F. Supp. 3d at 461.
¶ 119       Aspects of this appeal are frivolous because they would not have been brought in good
        faith by a reasonable, prudent attorney. A reasonable attorney would have thoroughly reviewed
        the briefs he submitted to this court to ensure that his arguments were meritorious and that his
        citations were accurate. Mr. Panichi failed to do so. Instead, Mr. Panichi misled the court about
        the applicable law, in effect perpetrating a fraud upon the court. See Mata, 678 F. Supp. 3d at
        461 (“An attempt to persuade a court or oppose an adversary by relying on fake opinions is an
        abuse of the adversary system.”). Consequently, Mr. Panichi’s conduct violated Rule 375(b).

¶ 120                                c. Appropriate Attorney Sanctions
¶ 121       Sanctions for violations of Rule 375(a) may include “an order to pay a fine, where
        appropriate, *** against any party or attorney for a party or parties.” Ill. S. Ct. R. 375(a) (eff.
        Feb. 1, 1994). In turn, sanctions for violations of Rule 375(b) “may include an order to pay to
        the other party or parties damages, the reasonable costs of the appeal or other action, and any
        other expenses necessarily incurred by the filing of the appeal or other action, including
        reasonable attorney fees.” Ill. S. Ct. R. 375(b) (eff. Feb. 1, 1994). The committee comments to
        Rule 375 add that, “Under paragraph (b), a penal fine may be imposed if the conduct in a
        particular case also constitutes a violation of the civil appeals rules as set forth in paragraph
        (a) above.” Ill. S. Ct. R. 375, Committee Comments (adopted Aug. 1, 1989). See Sterling
        Homes, Ltd. v. Rasberry, 325 Ill. App. 3d 703, 709 (2001) (“The purpose of Rule 375(b) is to
        condemn and punish the abusive conduct of litigants and their attorneys who appear before
        us.”).
¶ 122       The Illinois Appellate Court apparently has not yet addressed in a published opinion the
        imposition of sanctions under Rule 375 against an attorney who submitted fictitious cases
        generated by AI to the court. However, the court has imposed a variety of sanctions on
        attorneys for other misconduct under Rule 375. See Board of Managers of Northbrook Country
        Condominium Ass’n v. Spiezer, 2018 IL App (1st) 170868, ¶ 27 (imposing a $750 fine and
        requiring the attorney to attend six hours of civility and professionalism courses for making
        disparaging statements against the court and opposing party); Mote v. Estate of McManus,
        2025 IL App (4th) 241307, ¶ 85 (ordering the appellant and his counsel to pay the appellee
        $5,250 for attorney fees and costs for bringing a frivolous appeal aimed only to delay, harass,
        or cause needless expense to the appellant); Parkway Bank & Trust Co. v. Korzen, 2013 IL
        App (1st) 130380, ¶¶ 9-10, 84, 86, 92, 101-02 (sanctioning the appellant $5,000 and increasing
        the money judgment in favor of the appellee by $23,432.05, the attorney fees for the case
        below, rather than dismissing the appeal, for filing a frivolous appeal and filing a brief with
        numerous violations of Rule 341).
¶ 123       Additionally, though not under Rule 375, at least one Illinois circuit court has sanctioned
        an attorney under Illinois Supreme Court Rule 137 (eff. Jan. 1, 2018) for citing a nonexistent
        case. See D’Angelo v. Vaught, No. 21-CH-29 (Cir. Ct. Williamson County, Apr. 2, 2025)


                                                    - 24 -
        (imposing sanctions of $2,000 against an attorney “for citing a non-existent case to the Court
        on two separate occasions”).
¶ 124       Furthermore, federal and state courts across the country have imposed sanctions on
        attorneys who submitted fictitious cases. See Mata, 678 F. Supp. 3d at 466 (imposing a $5,000
        penalty against attorneys who cited fictitious cases generated by ChatGPT); Wadsworth v.
        Walmart Inc., 348 F.R.D. 489 (D. Wyo. 2025) (sanctioning an attorney who cited fictitious
        cases generated by AI by revoking his pro hac vice status and imposing a $3,000 fine); Garner
        v. Kadince, Inc., 2025 UT App 80, 571 P.3d 812 (sanctioning an attorney who cited fictitious
        cases by ordering him to pay the opposing party’s attorney fees, refund his client all fees
        charged and paid, and pay $1,000 in the form of a donation to a nonprofit); Lacey v. State Farm
        General Insurance Co., No. CV 24-5205, 2025 WL 1363069 (C.D. Cal. May 5, 2025)
        (sanctioning attorneys who cited fictitious cases by striking their briefs, paying $26,100 to the
        defense as reimbursement for the costs of the Special Master, and paying $5,000 to the defense
        for legal fees incurred); Hayes, 763 F. Supp. 3d at 1073 (imposing a $1,500 fine where the
        attorney submitted a motion quoting language from a nonexistent case and initially attempted
        to claim that he had mistakenly cited that case in place of another, which also did not contain
        that quote); Shahid v. Esaam, 918 S.E.2d 198 (Ga. Ct. App. 2025) (imposing a $2,500 fine
        where the attorney cited nonexistent cases but did not admit to using AI).
¶ 125       Turning to the case at bar, this court appreciates and takes into consideration Mr. Panichi’s
        candor that he used AI to generate the briefs, as well as his acceptance of responsibility for his
        conduct and any consequences. We also note that Mr. Panichi told this court that he has not
        previously been disciplined or sanctioned by any court or other disciplinary body. However,
        not only did Mr. Panichi cite fictitious cases in submissions to this court, he was also not
        entirely honest with this court, as discussed above, when he maintained that two existing cases
        had been properly cited and one had been incorrectly cited.
¶ 126       As we discussed above, though this court considered striking Mr. Panichi’s briefs in this
        appeal under Rule 375(a) because of his citation to fictitious cases, we chose not to do so and
        addressed the merits above. Mr. Panichi’s request to file an amended brief “citing only verified
        case law” is therefore denied.
¶ 127       This court, instead, chooses to impose monetary sanctions against Mr. Panichi under Rule
        375(a) and (b). Mr. Panichi is responsible for his conduct in preparing these legal filings, and
        we have no reason to believe respondent was aware of or played any role in his conduct.
        Mr. Panichi submitted to this court a copy of the petition for attorney fees that he filed in the
        Sangamon County circuit court, along with further documentation confirming that he had been
        paid $6,925.62 by the Sangamon County treasurer. He was paid at a rate of $150 per hour
        under Illinois Supreme Court Rule 299 (eff. Jan. 1, 2024). At the hearing on June 18, he
        claimed that this amount “was more than [he] usually charge[s]” and this case “was out of the
        ordinary in terms of time spent” because his office “did some exceptional work trying to get
        some other information before the court” by filing “a brief trying to open up the proofs.”
        However, he simultaneously admitted to using AI to generate the briefs, not doing any of his
        own independent research, and even that he “barely did any personal work [him]self on this
        appeal.” These statements contradict not only each other, but the itemization of time he
        attached to his petition for attorney fees.
¶ 128       Mr. Panichi’s petition for attorney fees reflects that he billed (1) four hours for “Legal
        research re: fitness findings and reasonable efforts,” (2) five hours for “Draft[ing] Argument

                                                    - 25 -
        sections and compil[ing] authority,” (3) two and a half hours for “finaliz[ing] and fil[ing]
        Appellant’s Opening Brief,” (4) four and a half hours for “Draft[ing] Appellant Reply Brief,”
        and (5) another four hours for “Draft[ing] and fil[ing] Appellant Reply Brief.” There is no
        reference in the petition to “a brief trying to open up the proofs” or any motion, proceeding, or
        brief other than the opening and reply briefs. Given that Mr. Panichi admitted that he relied
        entirely on AI to draft the brief and conduct research, did not do any research, drafting, or
        citation verification himself, and “barely did any personal work [him]self on this appeal,” these
        billing statements are not credible. He thus billed Sangamon County for up to 20 hours of legal
        research and drafting that appear questionable.
¶ 129        We therefore rule that Mr. Panichi must disgorge the payment of $6,925.62 that he received
        from the Sangamon County treasurer under Illinois Supreme Court Rule 299 (eff. Jan. 1, 2024)
        for being appointed to represent respondent in this appeal. He must issue payment of this
        amount to the Sangamon County treasurer within 30 days of this order and submit within 5
        days after payment a receipt to this court reflecting said payment.
¶ 130        We also choose to impose an additional fine under Rule 375(a) and (b). See Ill. S. Ct. R.
        375(a)-(b) (eff. Feb. 1, 1994); Ill. S. Ct. R. 375, Committee Comments (adopted Aug. 1, 1989).
        Mr. Panichi misled this court, as discussed above, by citing eight fictitious cases and
        maintaining that three of them existed when confronted about it. Moreover, this appears to be
        the first issued opinion in the Illinois Appellate Court addressing the citation of fictitious cases
        generated by AI, and an additional penalty will help deter other attorneys from following in
        Mr. Panichi’s footsteps. We impose an additional $1,000 penalty for Mr. Panichi’s violation
        of Rule 375(a) and (b).
¶ 131        To be clear, nothing in this opinion is intended to categorically forbid attorneys from using
        AI tools—in fact, the Illinois Supreme Court AI policy explicitly permits the use of AI.
        However, attorneys must use AI tools wisely. We reiterate the supreme court’s reminder that
        “[a]ll users must thoroughly review AI-generated content before submitting it in any court
        proceeding to ensure accuracy and compliance with legal and ethical obligations.” AI Policy,
        supra. Flagrant and unprincipled use of AI without ensuring the accuracy of the generated
        response “is an abuse of the adversary system” (Mata, 678 F. Supp. 3d at 461), as it wastes
        court resources that would be better spent elsewhere.
¶ 132        We are cognizant of our responsibility under the Code of Judicial Conduct to “inform the
        Illinois Attorney Registration and Disciplinary Commission” if “a lawyer has committed a
        violation of the Illinois Rules of Professional Conduct of 2010 that raises a substantial question
        regarding the lawyer’s honesty, trustworthiness, or fitness as a lawyer in other respects.” Ill.
        Code Jud. Conduct (2023), Canon 2, R. 2.15(B) (eff. Jan. 1, 2023). Accordingly, a copy of this
        opinion shall be sent to the Illinois Attorney Registration and Disciplinary Commission by the
        clerk of the Fourth District Appellate Court.

¶ 133                                      III. CONCLUSION
¶ 134      For the reasons stated, we affirm the trial court’s judgment. We also order the following
        sanctions against attorney William Panichi:
                   (1) Mr. Panichi must disgorge the payment of $6,925.62 he received for his work
               on this appeal to the Sangamon County treasurer within 30 days of the filing of this
               opinion and must submit, within 5 days after payment, a receipt to this court reflecting
               said payment;

                                                     - 26 -
               (2) Mr. Panichi shall pay $1,000 as monetary sanctions to the clerk of the Fourth
           District Appellate Court within 30 days of the filing of this opinion; and
               (3) The clerk of the Fourth District Appellate Court shall send a copy of this opinion
           to the Illinois Attorney Registration and Disciplinary Commission.

¶ 135   Affirmed.




                                               - 27 -
